Summary 0:
EU rules on marketing communications for collective investment undertakings (AIFs) and UCITS (management companies)
EU rules for marketing communications (management firms)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010 — rules on pre-marketing and marketing communications of collective investments in collective investment undertaking* and social entrepreneurship funds (UCITS)
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out the rules applicable to marketing communications and the information to be disclosed to investors.
It aims to enhance the regulatory framework applicable to collective investments* and to improve investor protection.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to:
a UCITS management company;
EuVECA managers* and EuSEF managers;
UCITS management companies.
EU countries must establish a central database containing summaries of national requirements for marketing communication and hyperlinks to the information published on the websites of the competent authorities.
The European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) must ensure that:
all marketing communications addressed to investors are identifiable as such;
the risks and rewards of purchasing units or shares of an AIF or UCITS are described in an equally prominent manner;
investors’ rights and obligations are clearly defined in the marketing communications;
all fees and charges are publicly disclosed on the website of the relevant authorities;
any processing of personal data carried out in relation to cross-border marketing activities is proportionate to the supervisory tasks carried out and publicly disclosed;
fees and charges listed in the central database.
the European Commission publishes a report every 2 years on the application of the regulation.
AIFMs. AIFMs must ensure:
that all marketing communications are clearly identifiable;
that the risks and benefits of investing in UCITS and AIFs are clearly described in a clear, understandable and proportionate manner.
Management companies must:
ensure that marketing communications do not contain misleading information;
notify and notify investors of any changes to their rights or obligations;
provide investors with a key investor information document (KIID) as required by Directive 2009/65/EC and Directive 2011/61/EU.
In addition, they must ensure the disclosure of the rights and responsibilities of the management company and of its management board.
They must also ensure that the information they provide to investors in marketing communications is not misleading and that they do not mislead or deceive investors in any way.
FROM WHEN DOES THE REGULE APPLY?
   
It has applied since 2 August 2010 and had to become law in the EU countries by 2 August 2021.
BACKGROUND
 
  * KEY TERMS
* Collective investment undertaking: an investment undertaking that is managed by a management company.
* UCITS: a unit-linked investment trust (UCIT) that is a UCITS authorised in accordance with Article 5 of Regulation (EC) No 345/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council and is managed externally or internally managed, depending on its legal form.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Directive 2010/95/EC
2.8.2010
-
OJ L 183, 2.8, 2010, pp. 1-8
Amending act(s)
Entry INTO FORCE
Deadlines for transposing in the Members States
Regulations (EC, EC, EC) No 1286/2014 and (EC), No 1296/2014
1.2.2014
- The Regulation relating to the management of UCITS, Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 346/2013 and Regulation (Euratom) 2018/1725
1 August 2021
- the Regulation on the registration of funds and the regulation on the marketing of funds, as amended.
last update 23.01.2021



Summary 1:
Ensuring products are safe on the EU market: Regulation (EU) 2019/515 (market surveillance framework) (European Agency for Safety and Health at Work)
Establishing a market surveillance framework for products entering the EU
SUMMARY OF:
Directive 2001/95/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down the general safety requirements for all consumer products and providing for specific obligations and powers of the Member States in relation to dangerous products as well as for the exchange of information to that effect through the Rapid Information Exchange System (RAPEX)
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes a framework for the organisation of market surveillance of goods entering the European Union (EU).
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to all products that are subject to the EU harmonisation legislation listed in Annex I concerning manufactured products other than food, feed, medicinal products for human and veterinary use, living plants and animals, products of human origin and products of plants or animals relating directly to their future reproduction.
It does not apply to the following products:
food and feed;
medicines for human or veterinary use;
living plant and animal products;
live animals;
products of plant or animal origin.
Requirements for market surveillance authorities
EU countries must ensure that:
an economic operator is established in order to place products on the Union’s market;
there is a liaison point with the market surveillance authority;
the surveillance authorities have access to the Product Contact Points established under Regulation (EC) No 765/2008;
a product is considered to have been made available on the market if the offer for sale is targeted at end users in the EU.
An economic operator must act responsibly and in full accordance with the legal requirements applicable when placing or making products available to the market, so as to ensure compliance with the legislation on products.
Risk assessment
The Regulation sets out the methodology and criteria for assessing risks. It also lays down the rules for the harmonisation of EU legislation on the control of dangerous products and on the sharing of information between the surveillance authorities and the economic operators concerned.
Importers and fulfilment service providers must ensure the safety of consumers and the smooth functioning of the internal market, including where the economic operator acts both as an importer as regards certain products and as a fulfilment services provider as regards other products. In addition, the regulation requires that the competent authorities of EU countries:
ensure that the authorised importer is informed of any non-compliance of the legislation;
identify the importer of the product and inform the competent authority of the EU country in which the product is to be placed;
establish a contact point for the authorities in the case of non-compliant products, so that they can address any requests for information regarding a product's compliance with EU legislation.
In addition, EU countries must:
implement effective and proportionate controls on the import and export of dangerous and potentially dangerous products; and
establish procedures for the access of authorised importers to the product contact points established under the Regulation.
Exchange of information
In order to ensure the effective enforcement of the regulation, the Commission must establish an electronic system for exchanging information between EU countries’ competent authorities. It must also establish a system for sharing information on products that have been found to be a risk to public health or to the health and safety of end users.
The Commission must also:
inform the EU countries of any measures taken to prevent, detect and combat the introduction of dangerous or potentially dangerous goods into the EU;
make it possible for the Commission to monitor the implementation of these measures;
use electronic means of communication to ensure that all EU countries have the same level of access to this information.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULATIONS APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 January 2019.
BACKGROUND
 
  I am a member of the Commission and I am responsible for implementing the regulation.
For more information, see:
‘Market surveillance framework’ on the European Commission's website.
MAIN DOCUMENT
  �   бараланска гарка
Commission Regulation (Euratom) No 552/2019 of 21 December 2019 laying down a framework on market surveillance for products entered the Community (OJ L 127, 24.12.2019, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (e.g. Annex I) have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
  i   —   I   am a Member of the Committee of the Regions responsible for the implementation and monitoring of the Regulation on Market Surveillance for Products Entering the Community and am assisted by the Commission in this work.
Communication from the Commission of 28 October 2015 entitled ‘Upgrading



Summary 2:
Exercise of copyright and related rights: online retransmission of television programmes and retransmissions of television and radio programmes originating in non-EU countries (Directive 2014/26/EU)
Exemption of broadcasting organisations from the obligation to communicate or make available to the public programmes in their ancillary online services.
SUMMARY OF:
Directive (EU) 2015/24/EU on the exercise of copyright, related rights and licensing of online services
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DIRECTIVE?
It aims to ensure that the rights holders of audiovisual works (i.e. television programmes) and broadcasting organisations (radio programmes) are able to exploit the rights they hold for the purpose of providing online services to users.
The directive applies to:
online services that are a direct or indirect link to the broadcasting service;
online programmes that are not part of the original broadcast.
KEY POINTS
Scope of the directive
It applies to online services that, while having a clear and subordinate relationship with the broadcast, can be accessed by users separately from that broadcasting service without there being a precondition for them to have to obtain access to it.
It does not apply to the following:
ancillary services that give access to material that enriches or otherwise expands the programme broadcast by the broadcasting organisation, including by way of previewing, extending, supplementing or reviewing the relevant programme’s content.
Radio programmes that originate in other EU countries.
Internet programmes originating outside the EU.
Rights holders’ obligations
Radio and television programmes originate in countries other than the country of their principal establishment. The directive does not, however, apply to broadcasting organisations that are based in the same EU country as their principal establishments.
Licences
Radio broadcasters must obtain licences from the European Commission and the European Broadcasting Union (EBU). These licences are valid for a period of 5 years. They must be renewed at least once every 5 years and may be renewed for a further 5 years if necessary.
When determining reasonable licensing terms, including the license fee, the economic value of the use of the rights in trade, as well as the value allocated to the means of broadcasting, should be taken into account.
In addition, broadcasting organisations must ensure that:
the rights holders are notified of any infringements of their rights;
the broadcasting organisations are informed of any changes to the rights that may be made to their programmes; and
the European Commission has the power to grant or refuse authorisation to infringements.
Regulation (EC) No 596/2013 on the rights of collective management organisations (collective management organisations) and the broadcasting organisations themselves
It sets out rules on the right of distribution of the retransmitted programmes and the right to communicate with the public.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS DIRECTIVE APPLY?
The legislation has applied since 1 January 2016.
BACKGROUND
European Commission website.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Directive (EU, Euratom).
-
OJ L 183, 1.1.2016, pp. 1-18.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
Communication from the Commission to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions: Communication on the implementation of Directive (EEC) 2015-24/eu of the Union on the Exercise of Copyright, Related Rights and Licensing of Online Services (COM(2014) 596 final - Not published in the Official Journal).
Communications from the commission to the Commission, the EBU, the Commission of the European Social and Economic Committee, the Committee on the Protection of Intellectual Property Rights and of the Rights of Creators of Television and Radio and the Commission on the protection of the intellectual property rights of Radio and Television and of Radio Operators of Telecommunications Operators in the European Union.
Commission communication on the application of Directive 2014/27/EU of the EU on the access to or use of an online service by broadcasting organisations for the purposes of the provision of access to, the use or access to a broadcasting service, and repealing Directive 93/83/EEC.
last update 14.02.2016



Summary 3:
The.eu top-level domain (TLD) and its associated scripts
The.EU top- level domain (tLD)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 652/2006 implementing the.eu country code top-Level domain
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes the European Union (EU).eu Top-Level Domain (‘.eu TLD’) to help build an online Union identity and to encourage cross-border online activities.
It sets out the rules for the organisation, administration and management of the.EU TLD.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to all EU countries and the European Economic Area (EEA) Member States. It does not apply to non-EU countries.
Eligibility criteria
Registration of one or more domain names can be requested by any of the following:
a Union citizen, independently of their place of residence;
a natural person who is not a Union citizen and who is a resident of an EU country;
an undertaking established in the EU;
any organisation established in an EU Member State without prejudice to the application of national law.
Registry
The European Commission designates a registry to manage the domain name.
The registry is managed by the European Internet Governance Group (EIG). The EIG is composed of representatives of the EU countries, international organisations and the Commission. It is chaired by the Commission and is responsible for the implementation of the regulation.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
  
It entered into force on 1 January 2007.
BACKGROUND
The EIG was established under Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 582/2006.
For more information, see:
European Union Top Level Domain Registry (European Commission).
MAIN DOCUMENT
 
 ъ   х  ̅ 
Commission Implementing Regulation (Euratom) 2016/852 of 20 December 2016 implementing the European Parliament and of 22 December 2016 on the implementation, on behalf of the Union, of the European Top-level Domain Name System (ETD) (OJ L 347, 29.12.2016, pp. 1-11)
Successive amendments to the regulation have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 28.02.2021



Summary 4:
Connecting Europe Facility (CEF) 2021-2027: transport and energy infrastructure
Communication from the Commission to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions on the Connecting European Facility (the CEF) (COM(2021) 749 final - not published in the Official Journal)
Communicating from the European Commission, the Commission, and the European Social and Cohesion Committee on the European Union (ESC) Connecting Europe Fund (The CEF).
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) 2021/1058 establishing the European Transport Facility
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes the European transport facility (the ‘CEF’).
The aim of the CEF is to accelerate investment in the field of trans-European networks and to leverage funding from both the public and the private sectors, while increasing legal certainty and respecting the principle of technological neutrality.
KEY POINTS
The regulation sets out the eligibility criteria for projects that are eligible for financing from the Cohesion Fund (the EU’s social and economic fund). The CEF covers:
trans-European transport infrastructure (TEN-T) projects;
energy infrastructure (e.g. smart grids, smart grids and smart grids);
transport infrastructure (i.e. rail and road networks);
smart grids;
electricity infrastructure (smart grids and energy storage);
energy-related projects.
Projects eligible for CEF funding
Transport projects
Trans-
projects are designed to:
improve the efficiency of existing infrastructure;
improve access to the transport network;
facilitate the use of alternative fuels;
ensure the availability of renewable hydrogen or bio-methane to be used in transport;
promote the development of new technologies in the transport sector;
increase the number of cross-border rail connections between EU countries;
enhance the capacity of existing rail networks;
provide for the expansion of the European Rail Traffic Management System (ERTMS) by 2030;
support the implementation of the Trans-European Maritime Transport System (EMTS) by 2023.
EU countries must submit a list of projects eligible for funding.
The European Commission will review the list of eligible projects at the end of 2021. The review will take into account:
the number of projects that have already begun to be considered eligible as of 1 January 2021;
the geographical coverage of the EU; and
the development of the trans-border transport network.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 July 2021.
BACKGROUND
 
                  
The Transport Facility is part of the overall European cohesion fund (MFF) and is one of the largest investment programmes in the EU.
For more information, see:
Transit Facility (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Cross-European network: a network of roads, railways and other modes of transport that connects all EU countries and the EU‘s islands and regions.
* Smart grid: a system of smart grids that enables the transmission of electricity, gas and other energy from one grid to another.
Electricity: the transmission and distribution of electricity from one energy source to another, including the storage of energy from the grid to the grid.
Transportation infrastructure: the network of road, rail and other forms of transport, including smart grids.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 749/2021 of 21 June 2021 establishing the Connected Europe Facility and repealing Regulation (EC) No 1315/2013 (OJ L 347, 23.8.2021, pp. 1-24)
last update 04.11.2022



Summary 5:
Removal of terrorist content on the internet (Regulation (EU) 2019/852)
Removal on the Internet (Regation (EU))
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation on the removal of terrorist material online
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to improve the detection and removal of content online that incites terrorist acts.
It applies to all providers of information society services which store and disseminate to the public information and material provided by a user of the service on request, irrespective of whether the storing and dissemination of such information or material is of a mere technical, automatic and passive nature.
KEY POINTS
The regulation:
requires hosting service providers to remove or disable access to terrorist content, following an assessment by the competent authorities;
requires the competent authority to provide the hosting service provider with information on procedures and applicable deadlines at least 12 hours in advance of issuing for the first time a removal order.
The competent authority must:
assess whether material constitutes terrorist content within the meaning of this regulation;
identify the nature and wording of statements, the context in which the statements were made and their potential to lead to harmful consequences in respect of the security and safety of persons;
ensure the authenticity of the removal order, including the accuracy of the date and the time of sending and receiving the order;
consider the economic and social impact of the content being disseminated, as well as the number of users and the size of the hosting provider’s capacity to remove the content.
In addition, the regulation sets out a number of measures to be taken in the event of a breach of the above conditions.
Hosting service providers must ensure that:
the competent authority:
ensures that the content is removed within 24 hours of receiving a request for removal;
implements all the necessary measures to prevent the dissemination of the terrorist content;
publishes a written record of the order and the deadlines for its implementation.
EU countries must ensure the following:
that the competent national authorities:
have access to all the information they need to carry out their tasks;
have the power to:
impose sanctions, including criminal proceedings, for infringements of EU law;
take appropriate measures to protect the personal data of individuals who have been victims of terrorist acts;
establish a system of cooperation between national authorities and hosting services providers.
Where the hosting services provider fails to comply with the above requirements, it may be subject to criminal proceedings and/or to fines.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
The Regulation has applied since 1 January 2019.
BACKGROUND
The EU has adopted a series of measures designed to tackle terrorist content online. These include:
Directive 2000/31/EC establishing the European Network for the Prevention of Electronic Crime (ENPC);
Directives 2000/32/EC and 2000/34/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on the fight against terrorism and on the prevention of online incitement to commit acts of terrorism.
For more information, see:
‘Fighting terrorism’ on the European Commission's website.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EC) No 552/2009 of 21 December 2009 on the implementation of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 1082/2009 on the protection of the internet against terrorist material and repealing Council Regulation (Euratom, EC) No 882/2008 (OJ L 347, 24.12.2009, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (ec) No 540/2009 have been incorporated into the original document. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
DirectIVE 2000/30/EC, of the Parliament and the Council of 22 December 2000 on the establishment of a network for the prevention and control of terrorism and repealing Directive 2000/33/EC (Oj L 347 of 24.11.2000, p. 1)
See consolidated version.
last update 04.02.2021



Summary 6:
Framework Programme for Research and Innovation 2021-2027
Framework Programmes for Research & Innovation 2021 - 2027
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) 2021/2027 establishing the framework programme for research and innovation
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes the framework for the EU’s multiannual financial framework (MFF) 2021–2027.
It sets out the objectives and priorities of the programme.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The programme aims to:
promote the creation, better diffusion and transfer of high-quality and excellent knowledge and high quality technologies in the EU;
facilitate the recruitment of talent at all levels and contribute to full engagement of the EU's talent pool;
strengthen collaborative links and strengthen the impact of R&I in developing, supporting and implementing EU policies;
contribute to the sustainable development of Europe.
Objectives
The objectives of Horizon Europe include:
creating, better spreading and transferring knowledge and innovative technologies in Europe;
promoting the integration of European knowledge assets into innovation;
encouraging the exchange of best practices and best practices;
improving the quality of scientific and technological research and development (R&D) activities in Europe and in the world;
enhancing the competitiveness of the European Union (EU).
Programmes
The Programme is divided into 4 strands:
Widening Participation and Strengthening the European Research Agenda (ERA);
Global Challenges and European Industrial Competitiveness;
European Industrial Innovation (EI);
Innovation for Europe (IoT).
The programmes are designed to contribute to the development of innovative products and services in Europe, in line with the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development (the '2030 Agenda'), the SDGs and the Paris Agreement adopted under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.
Funding
The overall budget for the programme is €1.8 billion. This covers research on cultural and creative sectors, including the establishment of a European cultural heritage collaborative space and the creation of a network of research institutes in the fields of culture and creative sciences.
The ERA is funded by the European Investment Bank (EIB) and the European Social Fund (ESF). The EIB is responsible for the overall budget of the Programme, while the ESI contributes to at least 3.3% of the overall programme budget. The ESI is funded through the EIB and the EoS.
Specific programmes
The ESI covers:
research on cultural, creative and intellectual heritage;
science, technology and innovation (S&T) on global challenges and European industrial competitiveness;
research and innovation on innovation for Europe and the world.
Awards
The awardees are selected on the basis of:
the quality of the research, technological research, product development and demonstration activities carried out;
the impact of the activities; and
the types and purpose of the actions carried out and the impacts that are sought.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
The regulation entered into force on 1 January 2021.
BACKGROUND
   
For more information, see:
‘Horizon Europe’ on the European Commission's website.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Directive 2011/8/EU
1.1.2021
-
OJ L 127 of 1.1, 2021, pp. 1-8
RELATED ACTS
Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2020/2093 laying down the rules for the implementation of the framework programmes for Research, Innovation and Entrepreneurship (Horizon 2020, Horizon 2021, Horizon 2022, Horizon 2025 and Horizon 2030) and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 596/2004 (OJ C 202 of 30.6.2020, pp.).
last update 04.02.2022



Summary 7:
EU programme for the development of the European Space Agency (ESA) (2017-2021)
EU Programme for the Development of the Europe Space Agency
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 837/2013 establishing the European Union programme for research and innovation in the field of space
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes the EU programme for Research and Innovation (ESA) under the Horizon Europe programme.
It aims to develop the European space sector and to strengthen Europe’s autonomy in accessing and using space in a secure and safe environment.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The ESA programme covers the period from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2021.
The objectives of the programme are to:
ensure that the EU has autonomous, reliable and cost-effective access to space, especially as regards critical infrastructure and technology, public security and the security of the EU and its Member States;
promote the use and uptake of the data, information and services provided, as well as to develop downstream applications based on those data and information;
support the competitiveness and innovation of the space sector industries within the EU, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), start-ups and innovative businesses.
Funding
The programme is financed by the EU budget and the European Investment Bank (EIB). It is funded by the European Commission and the EU Member States’ general budget. The budget for the period 2013-2020 is €2.5 billion.
In order to meet the objectives of ESA, the programme will be funded by:
the EU budget for Horizon Europe;
the general EU budget; and
the European Union budget.
Infrastructure dedicated to the programme, which could be supported under Horizon Europe, aiming for coherence with activities in this domain by ESA.
Implementing the programme
The Commission will promote synergies with other related EU programmes and financial instruments, which would allow, where possible, use of access to risk finance, innovation partnerships, and cumulative or blended funding.
EU Member States will also be able to make use of the same technical assistance in performing tasks entrusted to them under this regulation.
International cooperation
ESA will participate in international cooperation and collaborate in relevant sectoral bodies of the United Nations (UN). It will also cooperate with non-governmental organisations (NGOs) and international organisations.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
The regulation entered into force on 1 January 2013.
BACKGROUND
The EU is already one of the most competitive in the world in terms of innovation and competitiveness in the area of space. However, it has not yet achieved the full potential of its potential.
For more information, see:
European Space Agency and Horizon Europe (European Commission).
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EU) 2017/837 of 20 January 2013 establishing the EU Programme for Research, Innovation and Development in the Field of Space (Euratom) (OJ L 94, 1.2.2013, pp. 1-29)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EC), No 838/2013 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
Regulations (EC, Euratom) No 2185/2013 of the Council and of the Representatives of the Governments of the Member States of the Union establishing the Union Programme for Innovation and Research in the Area of Space and repealing Regulation No 2183/2012 of the General Assembly and Council Regulation No 1/2013/EC of the Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions and Council Regulations No 2184/2013, No 2186/2013 and No 2187/2013 (Oj L 94 and No 1187/2012).
Directive 2013/13/EU establishing the framework for the implementation of Horizon Europe and repealing Regulations No 1185/2014, No 1186/2014 and No 3183/2014 of the Commission and Regulation No 3187/2014 as regards the Framework Programme for Scientific and Technological Innovation (Horizon Europe).
Commission Decision 2013/14/EU of 27 November 2013 establishing a framework for Horizon Horizon Europe for the Implementation of the Framework Programmes for the Innovation and Technology of the Space Sector and repealing Council Decision No 2182/2013 on Horizon Europe.
Council Decision 2014/12/EU on the establishment of a framework framework partnership agreement (FFPA) between the European Parliament and the Council of 26 November 2014 on the financing and coordination of the framework programme for innovation and technology of the ESA and amending Council Regulation (CFSP) No 1183/2013.
last update 27.02.2021



Summary 8:
European Digital Innovation Programme 2021-2027
European digital innovation programme 2021 - 2027
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2021/2027 establishing a programme for Europe’s digital transformations
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
   
 
It establishes a programme to support the European Union (EU) digital transformation to deliver smart growth in areas such as high-quality data infrastructure, connectivity and cybersecurity.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The programme is for a period of 7 years to align its duration with that of the multiannual financial framework laid down in Council Regulation (EU), Euratom, 2020/2093 (MFF 2021–2027).
It covers the period from 1 January 2021 to 31 December 2027.
Objectives
The objectives of the programme are to:
promote the adoption of advanced digital technologies by industry, in particular by SMEs and by other entities that employ up to 3 000 people (mid-caps), by public organisations and by the academic community;
encourage the development of new products and services based on data;
improve further the EU's digital capacities;
address market failures or sub-optimal investment in the area of information and communication technologies (ICT);
improve the efficiency of the EU digital infrastructure;
ensure the protection of intellectual property rights;
contribute to the creation of a common European data space.
The European Digital Innovation Hubs are set up in each EU Member State.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
1.01.202101
The regulation sets out the eligibility of activities and underlying costs for the programme from the beginning of the 2021 financial year, even if they were implemented and incurred before the grant application was submitted.
Funding
The EU budget is the main source of EU funding for the European programme. The programme is funded by the EU budget. The European Commission is responsible for managing the programme and for the allocation of the funds. The Commission may grant grants, prizes, procurement, indirect management, financial instruments, budgetary guarantees, budgetary assistance and reimbursement of external experts.
A consortium of legal entities may participate in calls for proposals, provided that their representatives have the capacity to undertake legal obligations on behalf of those entities and that they offer guarantees for protecting the financial interests of the Union that are equivalent to those offered by legal persons.
In addition, the Commission must take the utmost account of the opinion of each Member State before selecting a European digital innovation hub in the territory of that Member State, taking into account the opinions of the Member States participating in enhanced cooperation with the European Parliament, the Council, the Court of Auditors and the EPPO.
Implementation
The Commission must ensure that the programme is implemented in line with the rules on the implementation of the European budget. It must also ensure the transparency of innovative financial instruments and mechanisms that involve the Union budget, with respect to their contribution towards achieving EU objectives, both as regards initial expectations and the end results.
It must also take account of:
the Member States’ obligations to ensure that any third parties involved in implementing the programme grant equivalent rights to the Commission, OLAF, the court of auditors and, where appropriate, the European Commission;
the legal personality of the entities receiving EU funds, and
the rights and access granted by the Commission to OLAF and to the Court.
References
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in Member States
Official Journal
Decision No 1/2020/EU
01.02.2020
-
OJ L 127 of 1.02-2021
RELATED ACTS
 			
Commission communication of 14 February 2018, entitled ‘A new, modern Multiannual Financial Framework for a European Union that delivers efficiently on its priorities post-2020’, setting out the options for the new multiannually financial framework for the period 2021-2020 (OJ C 202, 14.3.2018, pp. 1-25)
last update 27.10.2018



Summary 9:
Sustainable internal market: programme for the implementation of the European Pillar of Social Rights
Sustainable external market: Programme for the operation of the internal market
SUMMARY OF:
Programme for the functioning of the Internal Market
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE PROGRAMME?
The programme aims to ensure that the EU’s internal market is a well-functioning market. It is one of the EU's major achievements and its best asset in an increasingly global world, as well as being a core element in achieving the green and digital transformation towards a sustainable economy, in response to the increasing pressures of climate change.
It is based on principles of fairness, transparency and mutual trust, which promote competition and benefits consumers, businesses and employees.
The objectives of the programme are to:
facilitate access to public procurement, the professionalisation of public buyers, the facilitation and improvement of access to procurement markets for SMEs, in particular through advisory services and training, an increase in transparency, integrity and product contact points;
reduce the number of illegal and non-compliant goods entering the market through targeted awareness raising and training;
ensure that conformity assessment bodies continue to fulfil their regulatory requirements, such as impartiality and independence, especially through the use of accreditation.
In addition, the programme supports cooperation with non-EU countries’ competent authorities, as appropriate.
KEY POINTS
Scope
This programme covers the following areas:
public procurement:
the creation of strategic public procurement;
the facilitation of strategic procurement,
the professionalising of public procurement and
access to public buyers
the improvement of the public procurement market for small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs);
the promotion of the role of SMEs in the economy and the development of the SME-to-enter-market and e-commerce sectors
the development of a single market information system
the establishment of the Single Market Information System (SMIS),
the Single Market Portal which should become a backbone of the upcoming Single Digital Gateway, the Your Europe Advice, SOLVIT, the Internal Markets Information System and the European Market Scoreboard.
Regulation (EU) 2019/515 on the application of the principle of mutual recognition in the area of goods
the implementation and application by EU countries of the legal framework for anti-money laundering and countering terrorism financing
the protection of intellectual property rights and the protection of the environment.
EU countries should also cooperate with non–EU countries in order to ensure the proper functioning of their internal market.
Public procurement
Public authorities should be supported in their efforts to achieve those objectives, for example by providing information and facilitating an exchange of information explaining how the EU internal market works on the ground. They should also promote cooperation with third country authorities, including by:
ensuring that public procurement is transparent and efficient;
promoting transparency and integrity in the procurement process;
improving the quality of the information and communication of public authorities to the public;
providing information and training to the general public on the EU public procurement system.
European statistical programme
The European Statistical Programme (ESP) is the successor programme to the previous European Programme. It aims to provide a framework for the development, production and dissemination of European statistics pursuant to Regulation (EC) No 223/2009. It also covers the implementation by the Member States of the new European statistical programme.
FROM WHEN DOES THE PROGRAMMATION APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 January 2019 and had to become law in all Member States by 1 January 2020.
BACKGROUND
 
   			
 	
For more information, see:
The EU's internal market (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
                  
* Strategic public procurement: the procurement of goods and services by the public authorities of Member States.
* Public procurement: a public procurement process where the public buys and sells goods or services on behalf of a public authority.
MAIN DOCUMENTS
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in Member States
Official Journal
Programmes for the Implementation of the Programme
1 January 2019
1.1.2019
-
OJ L 157, 1.2.2019, pp. 1-8
RELATED DOCUMENT
                                   	
Regulations
 ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯	
Commission Implementing Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 596/2013 of 27 December 2013 laying down the rules and procedures for the application by Member States and the Commission of the Treaty on the Functioning of the Union of the Common Agricultural Policy and of the Agreement on the approximation of the laws, regulations, administrative provisions and administrative provisions relating to the common agricultural policy, the Common Fisheries Policy and the Common Food Policy (OJ C 202, 28.12.2013, pp.)
last update 27.01.2020



Summary 10:
EU rules on firearms and ammunition — classification and traceability of firearms, essential components and ammunition
European rules on guns and ammunition - classification and tracing of firearms and essential components
SUMMARY OF:
Directive (EU) 2016/679 on the classification of firearms
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DIRECTIVE?
It codifies and repeals Directive 2004/36/EC and its subsequent amendments.
It aims to make it easier for law enforcement authorities to trace firearms and their essential components.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The directive applies to:
firearms and ammunition classified in the following categories:
automatic firearms;
machineguns;
battery-operated firearms.
Dealers and brokers
museums and collectors.
EU countries may grant authorisations to recognised museums and collectors for the acquisition and possession of firearms in category A when necessary for historical, cultural, scientific, technical, educational or heritage purposes, provided that they have taken the necessary measures to address any risks to public security or public order, including by way of proper storage.
National competent authorities may restrict access to those records and all related personal data to competent authorities for up to 10 years after the destruction of the firearm or essential components concerned, for the purpose of granting or withdrawing authorisations or for customs proceedings, including the possible imposition of administrative penalties, where that access is necessary for the enforcement of criminal law.
Ammunitions are classified in category B.
Firearms are classified according to the number of rounds they can fire. They are classified as follows:
non-automatic firearms, including those with a calibre of.22 or smaller than.22, unless they have been converted from automatic firearms, or if they use rimfire percussion.
Ammunition is classified as a semi-automatic firearm unless it has been converted into an automatic firearm.
Muzzle-loading firearms are classified on the basis of their capacity:
calibre of ammunition;
firearm of calibre 1.5 or less;
muzzleload of ammunition.
In addition, ammunition is classified in accordance with the rules on the exchange of information between dealers and brokers, on the one hand, and national competent authorities on the other.
The European firearms pass is regarded as the main document needed by target shooters and other persons authorised for the possession of a firearm during a journey to another EU country. It is a document issued by the European Union and is valid for a period of 5 years. It must be accompanied by a photograph of the holder of the European Firearms Pass and a copy of the EU passport.
Exceptions to the above rules are made for:
museum and collectors;
manufacturers and importers of firearms; and
consultants of firearms. The directive does not apply to the manufacture of firearms or the modification or conversion of a complete firearm, such as the shortening of a whole firearm, leading to a change in their category or subcategory.
References
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Council Directive (EU).
-
OJ L 347 of 27.11.2016
RELATED ACTS
Directives 2004/37/EC of the Council and of the Representatives of the Governments of the Union on the registration of firearms (Codified version) (Directive 2004/35/EC) (Official Journal L 347, 27.10.2004, pp. 1-8)
DirectIVE 2004/38/EC, the Official Journal L 348 of the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, and Directives 2006/24/EC (Official J L 338 of the General Assembly, the European Parliament, the Council, the Commission and the European Economic and Social Committee, and Council Regulation (EC) No 1024/2012 on the harmonisation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of Member States relating to firearms and ammunitions, and repealing Council Directive 2006/34/EC).
Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1082/2006 of the Parliament and of Council of the Member State of the same name establishing a European Union Firearms Identification System (EURAFIS) and repealing Directives 2001/852/EEC, 2002/853/Euratom, 2003/854/EURatom, 2006/856/EC as regards the registration and reporting requirements for the registration, reporting and reporting obligations of dealers, brokers, importers and other authorised persons in the field of firearms for the purposes of traceability, and amending Council Directive 2001/943/E/EC.
Regulations (EC and Euratom), Regulations (EC), No 1083/2006 and (ECE) No 983/2007 of the Commission, and Regulation (EU, Euram) No 882/2007 establishing the European firearms identification system (Eurafis) and implementing Council Directives 2002/944/EU and 2006/13/



Summary 11:
Maritime National Single Windows (EMSWe) for port calls (until 2025)
Maritime Network of Single Windows for the provision of information on port calls
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) 2018/1725 on the establishment, establishment, operation and making available of a maritime National Single Window
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets up a maritime national single window (EMSW) to provide information on the port services provided by national authorities or port operators when a ship makes a port call.
It aims to improve the efficiency of maritime transport and to reduce administrative burden.
KEY POINTS
The regulation establishes a comprehensive EMSWe data set which covers all information elements that might be requested by the national authorities and port operators for administrative or operational purposes.
The national authorities, port operators or terminal operators must report the information they receive to the national single windows.
National authorities must ensure that:
the information they provide to an EMSWe single window is in a language easily understood by the public;
the data they provide are in a format that can be easily read and understood by all users of the single window; and
the national authorities do not use the same language for all information.
EU countries must not introduce new reporting obligations unless such introduction has been approved by the European Commission.
A national authority may request the Commission to introduce or amend data elements in the data set, in accordance with the reporting obligations contained in the national legislation and the EU legal acts.
In addition, national authorities must:
ensure that the information provided through the single windows is not shared with certain other entities, such as port or terminal operator, when authorised by the declarant;
keep the number of items to a minimum;
notify the Commission of any new data elements that have been introduced by the EU countries.
Each EU country must establish and operate a single window for each category of port services listed in Article 1(2) of the EU’s law on port services. The national authorities are responsible for the operation of the maritime single windows and for the training of their staff. They must also ensure that their staff are trained in the relevant language and that they have access to all the information that is necessary for their operation.
Every 2 years, the Commission must publish a report on the implementation of the regulation.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULATIONS APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 August 2018.
BACKGROUND
 
  Icons of the European Union (EU).
MAIN DOCUMENT
  Е
Council Regulation (EU), Euratom, of 21 July 2018 on the establishing, establishment and operation of a Maritime National Single Warthen Window for the Provision of Information on Port Calls (OJ L 347, 24.8.2018, pp. 1–8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (Euratom, Euratom) have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
  i   i i 
Commission Implementing Regulation (EC) No 552/2013 of 27 June 2013 laying down the technical specifications, quality control mechanisms and procedures for deploying, maintaining and employing the harmonised interface module and the related harmonised elements of the Maritime National single Windows.
Commission Regulation (European Parliament, Council, European Economic and Social Committee and Committee of the Regions) No 910/2014 of 21 June 2014 laying down conditions under which Member States recognise certain means of electronic identification for natural and legal persons falling under a notified electronic identification scheme of another Member State.
See consolidated version.
last update 04.02.2021



Summary 12:
Interoperability of electronic road toll systems
Interoperation of Electronic road tolls
SUMMARY OF:
Directive 2009/33/EC on the interoperability of the electronic toll systems of the European Union
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DIRECTIVE?
It aims to improve interoperability* of the EU’s electronic road-toll systems (EETS) and to reduce the cost of, and the burdens linked to, the payment of tolls across the EU.
KEY POINTS
EETS providers are required to:
provide users of light-duty vehicles with a 5,8 GHz radio frequency identification (OBE) for the calculation of applied toll on the vehicles of EETS users by the EETS providers;
cooperate fully with toll chargers in their enforcement efforts, so as to increase the overall efficiency of the system;
assist the European Commission in the implementation of the directive.
The directive repeals and recasts Directive 98/8/EC.
Scope
The Directive applies to all EETS systems, whether they are based on distance-based or time-based tolls. It does not apply to systems where the road fee due is linked to the time spent by the vehicle on the tolled infrastructure (for example, vignettes) or to the vehicle passing a specific point.
Rights and obligations of the main EETS actors, that is to say, the toll service providers, toll charger and EETS user
The main rights and obligations are set out in the annex to the Directive. These include:
the right of the toll charger to accredit or re-accredit EETS service providers before the operational launch of a new or substantially modified EETS system. The toll charger must design and follow the procedure for the accreditation or, respectively, re-assessment of the service providers in such a way that the procedure can be concluded at the latest one month before the operation launch of the new system.
Toll chargers must:
not be liable for tolls that their clients have not paid, when the latter are equipped with an OBE that has been declared to the toll charger as invalidated.
Payment of a toll to an EETS provider should be considered as fulfilling the user's obligations towards the relevant toll charger.
Eets providers should:
pay the toll on their behalf and in their name, since invoicing directly in the name of the EATS provider can have adverse administrative and tax implications;
ensure that the toll is calculated in accordance with the rules laid down in Regulation (EC) No 596/2006 on the application of the law of the Member States concerning the payment and collection of road charges;
not charge tolls on the vehicle of a road user who has not paid the road toll.
In addition, the directive sets out the rules on:
identification and processing of the data collected by EETS services;
the collection of information on vehicles and owners or holders of vehicles for which there was a failure to pay road fees;
data protection of the personal data of road users.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
The legislation entered into force on 1 July 2009.
BACKGROUND
   
 
For more information, see:
Electronic road toll system (European Commission).
* KEY TERMS
* Electronic toll system: a system that allows users to pay a road toll by means of an electronic device.
* Time-based: the amount of time taken by a vehicle to cover the distance covered by a given point in time.
Distance-based system: an electronic system that charges a toll based on the time the vehicle spent on the road.
Time-based systems: systems that charge a toll for the duration of a given journey.
MAIN DOCUMENT
  i.e. Directive 2009/34/EC of the Parliament and of the Council of 21 May 2009 on the implementation, on the one hand, and on the other hand, of the Treaty establishing a European Union (TFEU) (OJ L 127, 29.5.2009, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Directive 2009 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 14.02.2021



Summary 13:
Joint deployment of immigration liaison officers to non-EU countries (Recast of Regulation (EU) 2019/852)
Joint deployments of immigration liaisons to non–EU countries
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 852/2019 on the deployment of liaison officers in the field of migration
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to promote the joint deployment of EU immigration officers to third countries in order to improve operational cooperation and information sharing between EU countries and to respond to needs at EU level.
It recasts and repeals the previous regulation on immigration.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to all EU countries, the European Commission and the European Border and Coast Guard Agency (BERC). It does not apply to the United Kingdom (1), Ireland (1) and Denmark (1).
EU countries are required to ensure that their competent authorities cooperate with each other on migration-related issues and that liaison officers are deployed by different competent authorities and that their mandates and tasks may overlap.
Each EU country must designate an immigration liaison officer to deal with migration issues. These officers are responsible for:
collecting, analysing and disseminating information on irregular and uncontrolled migratory flows;
ensuring the efficient management of migration flows; and
monitoring the return operations of the EU’s border control and border control authorities.
The European Commission may deploy liaison officers on a temporary or longer-term basis to third-country countries.
exchange information with the relevant national authorities and the relevant international organisations.
Information collected by liaison officers must be made available through a secure web-based information exchange platform in accordance with applicable EU data protection legislation.
Liability of data
The Commission and EU countries must ensure that the information collected by the liaison officers is used only for the purposes of implementing the EU migration policy. The Commission must also ensure that data are not transferred to the national competent authorities of non-european countries. In the case of readmission agreements, personal data must be transferred only to the competent authorities in the EU countries for the purpose of implementing return operations.
In addition, the Commission must:
ensure that information collected and exchanged by the officers is made available to the relevant authorities of the countries covered by the regulation;
notify the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union of any changes to the annexes to the regulation concerning the application of certain provisions of the Schengen acquis;
keep a record of the information that the officers collect, analyse and transmit to the Commission, the EU agencies and other EU instruments or structures, including the work of local cooperation groups, in particular by focusing on operational aspects.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
It has applied since 18 February 2019.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Council Regulation (EC, Euratom).
-
OJ L 136 of 18.2.2019
Amending act(s)
Entry in force
Deadlines for implementation in the member states
Official journal
Regulations (EU).
Last updated: 27.08.2019



Summary 14:
Security of identity cards and residence cards
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 1030/2002 on identity cards
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to improve the security of EU citizens’ identity cards.
It sets out the security standards and technical specifications for identity cards, as well as residence cards, issued in the EU.
KEY POINTS
  
The regulation applies to EU citizens and their family members who are not nationals of an EU country and who do not have the necessary travel documents.
Issuing and renewing identity cards or passports
EU countries are to issue and renew identity cards to their nationals in accordance with national laws.
Residence cards issued to citizens of the EU are to be called ‘Residence card of a family member of a EU citizen’.
The European Commission has delegated powers to the European Parliament, the Council and the European Economic and Social Committee (EEA) to ensure that the regulation is implemented in line with the EU’s rules on the right of free movement of citizens.
In addition, the EEA has adopted a number of implementing acts, including:
Directive 2004/38/EC on travel documents for EU citizens, and
Council Regulation (EC) No 552/2004 on biometric passports and residence permits for third-country nationals.
Implementing powers conferred on the Commission are conferred on it in order to:
to ensure that future security standards are taken into account, where appropriate;
to implement the technical specifications adopted by the European Commission for the identity cards; and
to adopt the standards and specifications for the biometric passport and residence card.
To ensure that these standards are not undermine the interoperability of the card and residence documents, EU countries must ensure that they do not diminish the efficiency of the common security features or negatively affect the cross-border compatibility of the cards, such as the capability that the cards can be read by machines used by EU countries other than those which issue the cards. The Commission must also take into account the specific needs of children and of vulnerable persons.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
The Regulation has applied since 1 July 2002.
BACKGROUND
 
 Â   Â
 х  ц  ̅ 
For more information, see:
‘EU identity cards’ on the European Agency for Fundamental Rights’’ website.
MAIN DOCUMENT
 			
   	
Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 1108/2002 of 21 June 2002 on identity card and residency card security standards (OJ L 183, 28.6.2002, pp. 1–8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (Euratom) no 1108 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
  ▾   ▽ 
Commission Implementing Decision (EEA) 2018/852 of 27 June 2018 on the implementation of Council Regulation No 1029/2002 establishing a European Union system of biometric travel documents and on a European system of residence cards for third country nationals (Official Journal L 347, 29.7.2018).
last update 14.02.2021



Summary 15:
Interoperability of EU information systems for security, border and migration management (ESP) and biometric matching services
Interoperation of EU Information systems for borders, security, security and migration
SUMMARY OF:
Communication from the Commission to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions — European search portal for border and immigration management
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE COMMUNICATION?
It sets out a new approach to the management of data for borders and migration.
KEY POINTS
The communication calls on the European Union (EU) authorities and EU agencies to:
ensure the fast, seamless, efficient, systematic and controlled access by Member State authorities and European Union agencies to the EES, VIS, ETIAS, Eurodac, Europol, SIS and ECRIS-TCN databases;
provide access for the purposes of preventing, detecting or investigating terrorist offences or other serious criminal offences to Europol and Interpol databases, insofar as this is needed to perform their tasks in accordance with their access rights.
To achieve this, the communication calls for:
the creation of an interoperable search portal, a shared biometric match service (shared BMS), a common identity repository (CIR) and a multiple-identity detector (MID) to be established as interoperability components;
a common identity database to be set up in the CIR;
the use of biometric data for the purpose of identifying persons and travel documents;
an interoperability of the shared BMS and the use of the MID.
The Communication calls on Member States and the European Border and Coast Guard to ensure that national authorities and border control authorities have the necessary information at their disposal to prevent, detect or investigate terrorist offences.
FROM WHEN DOES THE COMMUNITY CONCLUSION APPLYORK?
The Commission has adopted the communication on behalf of the European Council.
It has applied the communication since 16 May 2017.
BACKGROUND
The European Union has adopted a number of measures to improve the security and border management of its external borders.
For more information, see:
European Union information systems (European Commission).
MAIN DOCUMENT
 
    баркантарскарнанкака:
Commission communication from 16 May 2018 on interoperability between the European search portals for border, immigration and security management and biometrics for the protection of the external borders of the Union (COM(2018) 621 final - Not published in the Official Journal).
last update 14.02.2021



Summary 16:
Renewable energy target for 2030
Renewables for 2030 (recast)
SUMMARY OF:
Directive (EU) 2018/1999 — renewable energy target
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DIRECTIVE?
   
It recasts and repeals Directive 2008/98/EC on renewable energy.
It aims to encourage the deployment of renewable energy in the electricity sector, the heating and cooling sector and the transport sector.
KEY POINTS
The directive sets out the rules for renewable energy procurement in the European Union (EU).
EU countries must:
allow renewable energy projects to participate in tendering procedures and direct marketing;
allow the participation of installations located on their territory to tenders opened to them by other EU countries.
Open to all producers of electricity from renewable sources on a non-discriminatory basis;
open renewable energy support schemes to all renewable energy producers in the EU.
The European Commission must assess the cost-effectiveness of these schemes, including:
the overall cost-benefit ratio, i.e. capital financing costs, on the costs of project development and therefore on the overall cost of deploying renewable energy;
the contribution of hydropower and wind power for the purposes of calculating the renewable energy contribution to the EU target.
In addition, EU countries must ensure that the calculation methods take into account the share of renewable electricity capacity used in such systems in all end-use sectors.
They must also ensure that renewable energy used in electricity transmission and distribution systems is calculated in accordance with the EU’sustainable energy efficiency targets.
the European Commission may take measures at EU level in order to ensure the achievement of the target if an ambition gap is identified during the assessment of the integrated national energy and climate plans.
If a country does not maintain its baseline share over a 12-month period, it must, within 12 months of the end of that period, take additional measures to regain that baseline share. The Commission may also take measures that may allow for cost-effective integration of such additional renewable energy capacity, whether they are of a regulatory nature (for instance related to market design) or provide for additional investments in various sources of flexibility (such as interconnections, storage, demand response or flexible generation).
The Commission must also assess the impact of cross-border support schemes on the internal energy market and can, under certain conditions, help Member States achieve the target more cost-efficiently.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS DIRECTIVE APPLY?
It has applied since 1 January 2019.
BACKGROUND
 
  The renewable energy targets for 2030 and Member States’ contributions to that target, including their baseline shares in relation to their national overall targets for 2020, are among the elements which have an overarching importance for the EU's energy and environmental policy.
For more information, see:
‘The renewable energy progress report’ on the European Commission's website.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2019/852
1.1.2019
-
OJ L 127 of 1.1-
Amending act(s)
Entry in force
deadline for implementation in Member States (Official Journal)
1 January 2019
Directives 2008/96/EC, 2009/98, 2010/99/EC and 2011/98
1 February 2019
1 March 2020
1 April 2020
Directions 2014/65/EU, 2014/75/EU and 2014/95/EU
1 June 2020
2 June 2020 and 1 July 2020
Regulations (EC) No 552/2008, 2014 and 2014 /95/EC
1 October 2020
3 June 2020 (Directive 2014/55/EU) and (EU), 2014/85/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council
1 July 2020 and 2 June 2020 respectively.
last update 14.02.2021



Summary 17:
Regulation of electronic communications networks and services — European electronic communications code (EEC)
Regulation (EU) 2016/679 on the European electronic communication code
SUMMARY OF:
Directive 2016/698/EU — European Electronic Communications Code
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DIRECTIVE?
It aims to establish a single European electronic Communications Code (ECC) for electronic communications services.
It recasts and repeals Directive 2002/19/EC, 2002/20/EC and 2002/22/EC.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The directive applies to all electronic communication services, including:
internet access services as defined in Article 2 of Directive 2014/53/EU and consumer equipment used for digital television;
interpersonal communications services;
communications services consisting wholly or mainly in the conveyance of signals.
The scope of the directive also extends to:
radio equipment;
the use of radio spectrum;
mobile radio equipment.
Rights and obligations
The EEC covers:
the right of the end-user to be paid for access to a service;
access to the internet, and services not covered by this directive, such as the provision of web-based and not communications-related content.
In addition, the directive sets out the rights and obligations of the service provider to ensure that the service complies with the rules of the EEC and that it is not liable for infringements of these rights.
Rules on remuneration
EU countries must ensure that service providers do not charge for the right of access to the service and that they do not to charge users for advertising.
the end-users to be exposed to advertisements as a condition for gaining access to an electronic communications service
the service provider is liable for the payment of a fee for providing the service.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS DIRECTIVE APPLYEAR ENTER INTO FORCE?
The legislation entered into force on 1 July 2016.
BACKGROUND
   
 
The European Commission has adopted a number of measures to modernise and modernise the EU’s electronic communications regulatory framework. These include:
recasting and recasting the existing Directives;
recasting and recasting the five previous Directives on electronic communications;
recasting Regulation (EC) 2002/58/EC;
decisions on the application of the rules and obligations contained in the directive.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Council Directive (EU).
-
OJ L 347 of 24.7.2016.
RELATED ACTS
Communication from the Commission to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions: Communication from the European Commission on the implementation of the European Electronic Communication Code (COM(2016) 2017/679).
Communications from the EU: Communication on the Commission's website.
last update 27.02.2017



Summary 18:
Monitoring and reporting of heavy-duty vehicles’ CO2 emissions and fuel consumption
Monitoring & reporting of light commercial vehicles
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) 2017/2400 — monitoring and reporting requirements for manufacturers and the European Environment Agency
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out the starting years for the monitoring* and reporting* requirements of manufacturers for the emission* and fuel* emissions* of heavy commercial vehicles in the European Union (EU).
It establishes a system for the exchange of data between the competent authorities of the EU countries and manufacturers.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to:
new heavy vehicles and all new trailers;
new trailers falling within the scope of the regulation;
light commercial vehicles falling within its scope;
heavy-duty vehicle categories falling under its scope.
EU Member States must monitor and report to the European Commission data on the registration of all new heavy and new trailers, including data on powertrains as well as the relevant bodywork.
Manufacturers must report the following data to the Commission:
the number of heavy vehicles registered in the Member States;
the total number of new heavy vehicles;
fuel consumption;
air drag value ranges.
The Commission may impose a fine on manufacturers if they fail to report the required data within the applicable deadline or if the manufacturer deviates from the data.
Reporting and reporting procedure
The Member States are responsible for:
monitoring the results of on-road verification tests;
reporting the aerodynamic performance of the vehicles; and
reporting to the air drag values of the heavy vehicles.
In addition, the Commission has the power to impose fines on manufacturers for any infringements of the reporting obligations.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULATIONS APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 January 2017.
BACKGROUND
 
  The regulation is part of a package of measures designed to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions in the light commercial vehicle sector.
For more information, see:
Light commercial vehicles (European Commission).
MAIN DOCUMENT
  Егаранскаркананкацака  хакка
Commission Implementing Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2018/852 of 1 January 2018 laying down the starting-year requirements for the reporting and monitoring of CO2 emission and fuel emissions of new vehicles and trailers and amending Regulation (EC) No 582/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards the reporting procedure for heavy vehicles (OJ L 183, 1.2.2018, pp. 1-18)
last update 14.02.2021



Summary 19:
Protection of the security of gas supply in the EU in the event of disruptions of the gas supply (Regulation (EU) 2016/852)
Protection and mitigation of the Security of Gas Supply in the European Union in the Event of Disruption of the Gas Supply
SUMMARY OF:
Delegated Regulation (EC) No 852/2016 on the protection of the internal gas market in the case of disruptions in the supply of natural gas
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to ensure that all the necessary measures are taken to safeguard an uninterrupted supply of gas throughout the EU, in particular to protected customers.
It sets out the rules and procedures for the preparation and implementation of preventive action plans and emergency plans.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to all EU countries, except Denmark, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway and Switzerland, which are not covered by the regulation.
Preventive action plans
Each EU country must establish a risk-based approach based on the major transnational risks to the safety of its gas supply. These risk groups are defined based on:
the risk of a natural gas supply disruption from Russia;
the risks of a disruption of the transmission system from non-EU countries.
To ensure maximum preparedness, the competent authorities of a given risk group must, after consulting stakeholders, establish a preventive action plan and an emergency plan that will contain regional chapters.
The European Commission is responsible for drawing up the regional chapters of these plans and the emergency plans, which must be approved by the national authorities of each EU country.
National authorities must consult the European Network of Transmission System Operators (ENTSOGS) and the European Coordination System for Gas.
Regional coordination system for gas flows
In addition, ENTSOG, a network of transmission system operators, must be involved in carrying out simulations.
EU countries must ensure that:
gas flows are not diverted from the EU’s internal energy market;
transmission system operators are required to enable permanent physical bi-directional capacity on all cross-border interconnections unless an exemption has been granted from that obligation.
If a gas supply is interrupted, the affected system users are entitled to a fair compensation to be applied directly and promptly between them.
An emergency plan must be in place for the duration of any gas supply interruption. It must include the following:
a description of the measures to be taken by national authorities in case of a supply disruption;
a list of the affected gas users;
an estimate of the total volume of gas to be supplied to the affected market users; and
the number of people covered by solidarity protected customers, including healthcare, essential social care, emergency and security services, including where those services are performed by a public administration.
Emergency plans
The emergency plans must include a description of all the measures that national authorities must take to ensure the continuity of supply to the protected market users, including:
measures to reduce the impact of any disruption of supply on the health and safety of the protected customers;
measures for the restoration of gas flows to the regulated market users.
In case of an emergency, national authorities should:
ensure that the emergency plan is in place;
take all necessary measures to restore gas flows;
provide information to the public and the public authorities of the EU countries concerned;
make available to the European Commission the information necessary for the implementation of the plan;
draw up a list of gas users covered by national emergency plans;
identify the number of persons covered by EU countries’ emergency plans and national authorities’ national contingency plans, as well as the number and duration of the national emergency plan.
FROM WHEN DOES THE LEGULATION APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 January 2016.
BACKGROUND
 
  баланскабаканка (European Commission)
Directive 2014/40/EU on the security and resilience of the European gas system (OJ L 347, 30.12.2014, pp. 1-8)
See consolidated version.
For more information, see:
‘Protected customers’ on the European Agency for Safety and Security at Work’ website.
* KEY TERMS
* Solidarity protected customer: any EU country that has a national authority responsible for protecting its citizens’ health, safety and security. It is therefore possible for EU countries to treat, in accordance with that framework, healthcare, social care and emergency services as solidarity protected citizens, including if they are provided by public administrations.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Commission Implementing Regulation (Euratom) No 1888/2016
1.1.2016
-
OJ C 202, 1.1-2016
RELATED ACT



Summary 20:
Energy efficiency of energy-related products: energy label and information sheets (Regulation (EC) No 765/2008 on energy efficiency)
Energy efficiency: Energy label and product information sheets
SUMMARY OF:
Delegated Regulation (EU) 2017/852 — energy label
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out rules on the energy label* and the product information sheet* of products on sale in the European Union (EU).
It aims to ensure that consumers can make informed choices when choosing energy-efficient products.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to all products placed on the EU market for the first time, including second-hand imported products. It does not apply to products that have already been on the market for a limited period of time.
It does not cover:
energy-related electrical appliances;
space and water heating products;
water heaters;
air-conditioning systems;
gas-powered heating and cooling systems.
Ecodesign
Products must bear the following information on the label:
the energy class of the product and the range of efficiency classes;
the number of products sold in the top classes of class A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, J, K, L, M, N, N and P.
the total energy consumption.
Suppliers of products marketed in accordance with Directive 2010/30/EU before the date of entry into force of this regulation must ensure that the energy class and the efficiency classes are clearly visible on the product’s label.
they must also indicate the absolute energy consumption in addition to the label scale, in order to allow customers to predict the direct impact of their choices on their energy bills.
Where it is not feasible to display the product in all forms of distance selling, visual advertisements and technical promotional material, potential customers should be provided at least with the product class and efficiency classes.
The European Commission must set up a product database consisting of a public and a compliance part, which should be accessible via an online portal. It should also be possible to access the technical documentation uploaded to the product database by suppliers on a voluntary basis.
If a product group is rescaled, it should be avoided by replacing the labels on the affected products displayed in shops within a short timeframe, and by organising adequate consumer information campaigns clearly indicating that a new version of the label has been introduced.
In addition, the Commission should set up an electronic tool for dealers to receive information sheets, to facilitate the monitoring of compliance and to provide up-to-date market data for the regulatory process on revisions of product-specific labels.
EU Member States must ensure the following:
suppliers submit technical documentation to the Commission and the European Parliament and the Council of the European Economic and Social Committee on a regular basis;
consumers have the right to ask the Commission for technical information on products they buy and to be informed of any changes to their energy label. The Commission must make this information available on its website.
Consumers must be able to ask questions of suppliers and the Commission on the basis of the information they have been provided.
National market surveillance authorities have the power to access that information when necessary, either by way of technical documentation or by means of additional parts of the electronic product database uploaded by suppliers. They must inform the Commission of any infringements of the provisions of the regulation and the delegated acts adopted pursuant thereto.
Importers must ensure their products comply with the regulation.
Manufacturers and importers of products are responsible for ensuring that their products meet the requirements laid down in this regulation. They are also responsible for:
ensuring that the products they place on the European market conform to the requirements set out in the regulation;
providing the Commission with technical documentation on their products and the information it needs to assess the products’ energy efficiency;
notifying the Commission, the European Trade and Consumers’ Representative and the Member States of any amendments to the regulation that they consider necessary to ensure the product complies with the requirements;
making sure that the Commission has access to all the technical information that they have provided to the database.
FROM WHEN DOES THE LEGULATION APPLY?
Directive 2010/31/EU has applied since 1 January 2018.
Regulation(EU) 2018/856 has applied from 1 January 2019.
Amending Regulation (EC, EC) No 768/2008 has applied to energy-based products since 1 December 2008.
BACKGROUND
Energy label
For more information, see:
‘Energy label’ (European Commission).
MAIN DOCUMENT
Commission Delegated Act of 20 December 2017 on the Energy Label and the Product Information Sheet of Energy-Related Products (OJ L 304, 31.12.2017, pp. 1-37)
Successive amendments to Regulation (E) No 770/



Summary 21:
Protecting personal data in the EU
Protecting data on the internet
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) 2016/680 on the protection of personal data
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes a framework for the protection and management of the personal data of natural persons in the European Union (EU).
It sets out the rights and obligations of those who process and determine the processing of their personal data, as well as equivalent powers for monitoring and ensuring compliance with the rules of the regulation.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to natural persons, whatever their nationality or place of residence, in relation to:
processing of their data by EU institutions, bodies, offices and agencies;
processing by a controller or processor not established in an EU country;
monitoring of the behaviour of such data subjects in so far as their behaviour takes place within the EU;
the processing of data subjects who are in another EU country.
It does not apply to the processing by an intermediary service provider.
EU countries may entrust competent authorities with tasks which are not necessarily carried out for the prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offences or the execution of criminal penalties, including the safeguarding against and preventing threats to public security, so that the processing for those other purposes falls within the scope of this regulation. However, for the performance of a task carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of official authority vested in the controller, EU countries are allowed to maintain or introduce national provisions to further specify the application of the rules applicable to such tasks.
Directive 95/46/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 1995 on the harmonisation of the laws of the Member States concerning the free movement of data between Member States (see summary).
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLYEAR OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
   
It entered into force on 1 July 2016.
BACKGROUND
 
 �  � �  ߎ 
For more information, see:
‘Data protection’ on the European Commission’s website.
MAIN DOCUMENT
 			
 �
                  
Commission Regulation (EU/2016/680 of 27 June 2016 on the Protection of Personal Data (OJ L 183, 1.7.2016, pp. 1-24)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EEC) No 652/2014 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
 ߏ  �
 � � 
Directives 2000/31/EC and 2001/45/EC establishing a European Union data protection framework and repealing Council Directives 98/7/EC, 98/8/EC (EC), 98/9/EC) and 98/10/EC as regards the right to privacy and the right of access to personal data.
Commission Implementing Regulation (EC, EC, EC) No 45/2001 laying down the rules for the processing and use of data by the Union institutions, agencies and offices of European Union institutions and bodies, bodies and agencies.
Council Implementing Decision (EU, Euratom) 2018/852 of 27 May 2018 laying down rules on data protection for the use of the data of EU institutions and agencies and repealing Directive 98/6/EC.
See consolidated version.
last update 04.02.2021



Summary 22:
Harmonised indices of consumer prices (HICP, HICP-CT, OOH price index) and of the house price index (HPI) at EU and national level.
HARMONIED INDICES OF CONSUMER PRICES
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 1176/2011 laying down a common framework for the development, production and dissemination of harmonised indices* of consumer price indices
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It lays down the common framework to develop, produce and disseminate harmonised index* of:
the harmonised consumer price index;
the household final monetary consumption expenditure index (OHCP);
the home price index.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to all EU countries, except Denmark, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway and Switzerland.
It covers the following categories of products:
food and beverages;
goods and services;
services;
other goods and services.
The indices are based on:
a ‘Laspeyres-type index’: the price of a product is denoted by p, the price reference period is 0, and the comparison period is t.
An ‘OOH’ price index is based on the price changes and weights of products included in the household final money consumption expenditure.
A ‘House Price Index’ (HCP-CT) is a weighted index of the prices of the products that make up a household’s total monetary consumption. It covers the whole of the EU.
EU countries must provide the European Commission (Eurostat) with the harmonised statistics as defined in point (12) of Article 2.
Eurostat must verify the sources and methods used by EU countries to calculate the indices and monitor the implementation of the regulation.
Implementing acts
The implementing acts concern:
sampling and representativity;
collection and treatment of prices;
replacements and quality adjustment;
index compilation;
revisions;
special indices;
treatment of products in specific areas.
In addition, the Commission must adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 10 for the amendment of Annex I, in order to ensure comparability of the indices at international level. These implementing acts must be adopted by the European Statistical System Committee (ESSC).
The Commission must submit a report to the European Parliament, the Council and the European Economic and Social Committee (EESC) on the application of this regulation. The Commission must also submit a proposal for amending this regulation with regard to the inclusion of the OOH index into the HCP coverage.
Repeal
The Regulation repeals Regulation (EC) No 2494/95 and its subsequent amendments.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 July 2011.
BACKGROUND
 
  I.
For more information, see:
‘The Harmonised Indices of Consumer Prices’ on Eurostat's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Consumer price index: an index based on observed prices, which include taxes on products. It is the main indicator of price stability in the EU and is used by Eurostat to assess the economic situation and the state of the economy.
OOH: a weighted average of the price change and the weights of all the products in a household.
House Price index: the average price change of a household over a 10-year period, which includes taxes on all the items in that household. The index covers the entire of the country, except for Denmark.
MAIN DOCUMENT
  i.
Commission Implementing Regulation 2011/1176/EU of 29 June 2011 laying down the Common Framework for the Development, Production and Dissemination of Harmonised Incomes of Consumers (OHS) (OHR) (Codified version) and the House Price Index (HIP) at Union and National Level and repealing Council Regulations (EC, EC) No 696/93, (EEC, Euratom) No 223/2009, (EC), (EURO) No 1209/2011 and (Euratom).
Successive amendments to Regulation (EHR) have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 14.02.2021



Summary 23:
Anti-dumping measures
Anti-deflating measures
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 552/2004 on the application of the 1994 Anti-Dumping Agreement
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It codifies and repeals Regulation (EEC) No 652/2003, which had to become law in the EU countries by 1 January 2004.
It aims to ensure that the rules of the agreement are applied correctly.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to imports of goods from non-EU countries into the EU and to exports of goods to the EU. It does not apply to the following:
the import of agricultural products from the EU or a non-member country of the World Trade Organisation (WTO) which are subject to provisional duties;
the export of agricultural goods to non-WTO countries which are not subject to a provisional duty.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
It entered into force on 1 January 2005.
Provisional duties may be imposed no earlier than 60 days from initiation and no later than 9 months thereafter.
Imposition of provisional duties may also be imposed:
within 60 days of the start-up of an investigation;
within 9 months of the end of the investigation; and
no later than 30 days from the end.
Investigations or proceedings may be terminated where the dumping is de minimis or the injury is negligible, and it is appropriate to define those situations.
In addition, the regulation provides for a procedure for interim reviews or investigations to determine whether provisional duties are warranted.
An advisory procedure is used for the adoption of provisional measures.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULTRY APPLY?
The legislation has applied since 1 January 2006.
BACKGROUND
For more information, see:
‘Anti-Deflating Measures’ on the European Commission’s website.
MAIN DOCUMENT
   
Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 550/2004 of 21 December 2004 laying down the rules on the implementation of the Anti-Deflation Agreement (OJ L 347, 29.12.2004, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EC) no 550/2003 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
 
Regulations (ECs) No 882/2006, No 883/2006 and No 884/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2006 laying down rules on provisional duties and implementing the WTO Anti-Counterfeiting Agreement (Official Journal L 337, 28.11.2006, p. 1)
See consolidated version.
Directive 2006/96/EC of the EU Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions of 16 December 2006 establishing a European Union Anti-Fraud Office and repealing Council Regulations (EC, EC, EC and EFTA) No 782/2005, (EC), No 881/2005 and (EC).
Council Decision 2006/97/EC establishing a system for the allocation of duties on imports of certain agricultural products into the European Union and repealing Directive 2006/98/EC.
Council Directive (EU), Council, Council, European Parliament, European Commission, European Economic, Social and Committee and Committee on Trade and Development Council Decision 2004/890/EC laying down a system of provisional tariffs on imports into the Union and provisional duties on certain agricultural imports.
last update 14.02.2016



Summary 24:
Countervailing measures against unfair subsidies
Countervailable measures against unjustified subsidies
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 596/2006 on the application of the rules provided for in the Subsidies Agreement
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
   
 
It codifies and repeals Regulation (EC, No 594/2004) No 652/2004, which had to become law in the EU countries by 31 December 2006.
KEY POINTS
Scope
A product is considered to be subsidised if it benefits from a countervailable subsidy (i.e. if it is imported from the country of origin but is exported to the EU from an intermediate country).
The regulation defines the terms ‘subsidies’ and ‘countervailable subsidies’.
Subsidies must be specific and must be calculated according to the following criteria:
the amount of the total subsidy;
the total value of the subsidy.
The amount of a subsidy must be determined by allocating the value of imports and exports of the product to the European Union (EU).
A subsidy may not be contingent on export performance, unless the facts demonstrate that it is in fact tied to actual or anticipated exportation or export earnings.
A loan guarantee by a government is not considered to confer a benefit, unless there is a difference between the amount that the firm receiving the guarantee pays on a loan guaranteed by the government and the amount of commercial loan in the absence of the government guarantee.
Provisional duties may be imposed on the export of a product if they are necessary to offset the subsidy or to prevent it from spreading to other EU countries.
Defensive measures may be adopted to prevent the spread of the subsidies.
EU countries may apply safeguard measures to protect the legitimate interests of the recipients of subsidies. These measures may include:
suspension of the granting authority’s powers to grant subsidies;
imposition of provisional duties on imports of the same product from non-EU countries;
restrictions on export taxes, duties or other charges levied on exports of that product.
Implementing Regulation (EU) 2019/852 sets out the conditions for adopting provisional and definitive duties, and for the termination of an investigation without measures. It also lays down the procedures for the rejection of complaints or the initiation of proceedings.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
The Regulation entered into force on 1 January 2006. It repeals and replaces Regulation (EEC, no 594)/2004.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Directive 2006/96/EC
1.1.2006
-
OJ L 127 of 1.1.
RELATED ACTS
Commission Decision (EU, Euratom) 2018/856 of 27 November 2018 on the implementation of Regulation (EG) No 550/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the rules applicable to the countervailing of imports of certain agricultural products (Codified version) (Official Journal L 347 of 27.11.2018).
last update 04.02.2021



Summary 25:
Facility for the recovery and resilience of the EU’s economic and financial recovery and recovery plans (Facility 2020/2094) (European Semester for Economic Policy Coordination)
Facilitation Facility for the Recovery and Resilience of the European Economic and Financial Union (Fiscal Semester)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2018/1046 on the Facility for Economic and Fiscal Coordination for the European Semester
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes the facility for economic and fiscal policy coordination (FEC) for Member States in the European Union (EU).
It aims to help Member States to recover from the COVID-19 crisis and to prepare for and respond to future shocks.
It sets out the specific objectives of the Facility.
KEY POINTS
The Facility is designed to:
provide financial support to Member States for the implementation of reforms and investments set out in their recovery and resilient plans;
ensure that the measures supported by the Facility are consistent with the objectives and priorities identified in the framework of the ‘European semester for economic policy coordination’;
contribute to the green transition, including biodiversity, the development of sustainable infrastructure and transport, and industrialisation and reindustrialisation;
mitigate the effect of the crisis on the economy;
promote entrepreneurship, social economy, the sustainable development of the social economy and the industrialisation of the economy, and mitigate the impact of COVID–19.
Member States must ensure that measures included in their plans comply with the principle of ‘do no significant harm’ within the meaning of Article 17 of Regulation (EU) 2020/852 of the Treaty on the European Pillar of Social Rights (see summary).
The Regulation sets out:
a maximum financial contribution calculated for each Member State and taking into account the estimated total costs of the plan, which should be paid based on the achievement of results by reference to milestones and targets of the plans.
A mechanism to ensure the link between the Facility and sound economic governance is established, allowing the Commission to suspend all or part of the commitments or payments under the Facility if it considers that Member States have not met their financial commitments or commitments.
The Commission may also decide to suspend or reduce the amount of financial support provided.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
   
It has applied since 30 June 2018.
BACKGROUND
The COVID‑19 crisis had serious economic and social consequences as well as asymmetrical effects on Member States and had to be dealt with swiftly and effectively.
For more information, see:
‘Recovery and resilience’ on the Commission's website.
MAIN DOCUMENT
  Егаранскабрака на  харка
Council Regulation (Euratom) 2019/846 of 20 May 2019 establishing the Facility to be implemented by Member States pursuant to Article 17 TFEU of the Framework Treaty on Economic and Social Cohesion and repealing Regulation (EC) No 552/2004 (OJ L 127, 30.5.2019, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (e.g. Annex I) have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 04.02.2021



Summary 26:
Technical support instrument for EU countries’ efforts to implement reforms (until 2023) (Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2021/241) (SUMMARY OF:
Regulation establishing a technical support instrument
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes a European Union (EU) instrument to continue and enhance support for Member States in the implementation of reforms (the ‘instrument’).
It aims to promote the EU’s economic, social and territorial cohesion by supporting Member States efforts to:
design, develop and implement reforms;
prepare, amend, implement and revise recovery and resilience plans;
ensure that the Commission can organise additional dedicated calls in response to specific emerging needs of Member States, including, as a matter of priority, for the preparation, amendment, implementation and revision of recovery and resilient plans.
It sets out the management modes, the forms of funding for the technical support measures and the content of work programmes, which must be adopted by way of implementing acts.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The instrument is designed to support:
the implementation of the European Semester for economic policy coordination;
the preparation, development and implementation of economic adjustment programmes;
reforms in the context of economic governance processes, in particular those effectively addressing the country-specific recommendations or actions related to implementation of EU law, and reforms in relation to the implementing an economic adjustment programme.
Objectives
The general objective of the instrument is to promote:
economic and social cohesion by:
improving the quality of the labour market;
strengthening the capacity of the public administration;
increasing the effectiveness of the judicial and administrative systems;
enhancing the efficiency of the administrative system.
The specific objectives are to assist national authorities in their endeavours to design and develop reforms, including through exchange of good practices, appropriate processes and methodologies, stakeholder involvement, where appropriate, and more effective and efficient human resources management.
In addition, the instrument aims to tackle broader environmental and social challenges within the EU, including the protection of natural capital, preserving biodiversity and the support to the circular economy and the energy transition, in accordance with the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
Funding
The regulation sets out a financial envelope for the instrument, which is to constitute the prime reference amount, within the meaning of the Interinstitutional Agreement of 16 December 2020 between the European Parliament, the Council and the European Commission on budgetary discipline, on cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial management, as well as on new own resources, including a roadmap towards the introduction of new own funds.
Implementation
The European Parliament and the Council of the EU have the power to adopt an annual report on the instrument's implementation and to invite the Commission to participate in an exchange of views with the competent committee.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
It has applied since 1 January 2021.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Commission Implementing Regulation (EU), Euratom
1.1.2021
-
OJ L 127 of 1.1. 2021
RELATED ACTS
Council Regulation (EC) No 2185/96 of 21 December 1996 establishing a European System of Fiscal and Monetary Affairs and amending Council Regulation (Euratom) No 552/96 (OJ C 202 of 21.12.1996)
Council Decision (EU/EEC) 2018/1046 of 20 December 2018 establishing a financial instrument for the period from 1 January 2020 to 31 December 2021 for the purpose of promoting the European Union's economic, Social and Territorial Cohesion and repealing Council Decision No 553/96 and Council Regulation No 554/96.
last update 04.02.2022



Summary 27:
Compensation and assistance for rail passengers: Regulation (EC) No 1371/2007 (recast) (European Union (EU) 2017/852)
Compensation, assistance and assistance in the event of delay, missed connection or cancellation of a rail passenger service: Regulation [Official Journal L 347 of 20.11.2017].
SUMMARY
WHAT DOES THIS REGULATION DO?
It sets out the rights of rail passengers to:
recover or compensation in the case of delays, missed connections or cancellations of rail journeys;
assistance to persons with disabilities and persons with reduced mobility;
reimbursement or assistance in case of death of a passenger.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to rail passengers taking international and domestic journeys. It does not apply to rail passenger services offered for historic or touristic use.
Passengers must be able to request reimbursement or assistance if:
the delay is caused by extraordinary circumstances such as extreme weather conditions or major natural disasters endangering the safe operation of the service;
the train is delayed for more than 30 minutes;
there is a delay of more than 2 hours; or
the service is cancelled because of a technical fault.
A railway undertaking is not obliged to pay compensation if it can prove that the delay was due to extraordinary circumstances, such as a major natural disaster or the absence of a train.
EU countries may exempt regional services from certain obligations as regards the provision of through-tickets and re-routing.
In addition to the above, EU countries may also grant exemptions from the obligation to provide through-ticketing.
European Union countries must ensure that:
travel information is provided to passengers;
rail ticket vending and tour operators provide information to passengers concerning the accessibility of rail services, access conditions of rolling stock and the facilities on board.
The European Commission must ensure the following:
passengers have access to travel information on rail services;
passenger information is available on the website of the railway undertaking or the railway company providing the service.
the European Commission is responsible for the implementation of the regulation.
Rail passengers have the right to be reimbursed or reimbursed in the following cases:
delays,
missed connections,
cancelled services,
delay of trains,
disruption of services, and
the cancellation of services.
Amendments to the regulation
Amending Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 852 amends the regulation to ensure that the European Commission has the power to adopt delegated acts in the light of developments in the field of transport policy.
FROM WHEN DOES THE REGULATIONS APPLY?
Directive 2009/34/EC establishes the European Union’s legal framework for the carriage of passengers by rail. It repeals and replaces the previous regulation, which had to become law in the EU countries by 31 December 2007.
It applies from 1 January 2018.
BACKGROUND
The EU has adopted a number of measures to improve the quality of rail transport in order to encourage the wider use of public transport. These include:
improving access to rail services for people with disabilities;
ensuring that rail passengers have equal access to the same level of protection as the general public;
strengthening rights of compensation and assistance;
introducing the right of travel information for passengers.
For more information, see:
Passenger rights (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Through ticket: a ticket issued by a railway company to passengers travelling by rail, i.e. a ticket that is valid for the duration of the journey.
MAIN DOCUMENT
   ம  ̱  
Regulation (EC, No 1372/2007 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 December 2007 establishing a framework for rail passenger rights (Recast) (OJ L 347, 20.10.2007, pp. 1–8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (Euratom) have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 04.02.2021



Summary 28:
Pre-accession assistance for the Western Balkans
Pre–accession aid for the western Balkans
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) 2021/947 establishing an instrument for pre‐accession* assistance to the beneficiaries listed in Annex I for the 2021-2027 period (IPA III)
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes a European Union instrument for providing pre‐Accession assistance to beneficiaries of the Western Balkan Association (WBA) for the period 2021–2027.
It aims to support the efforts of the beneficiaries to advance regional, macro‐regional and cross‐border cooperation and territorial development, including through the implementation of EU macro-regional strategies.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to the period between 2021 and 2027. It does not apply to:
the Western Balkans’ accession process;
the implementation of the United Nations 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development adopted in September 2015 as a universal agenda, to which the EU and its Member States are fully committed and which all beneficiaries have endorsed.
Beneficiaries covered by the regulation are:
a number of countries, including Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro, Kosovo, Serbia and Montenegro;
an EU country, the Republic of Macedonia;
a non-EU country (non-euro area country) that is not part of the enlargement process.
Funding
The Regulation sets out the conditions for the EU’s financial support for the WBA. It is based on a performance-based approach and the fair share principle, ensuring progress in all beneficiaries.
The beneficiaries covered by this regulation must:
ensure that their progress is recognised and recognised by the European Commission and the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union (EPEU);
promote the development of a social market economy;
take the necessary measures to tackle poverty and inequality;
improve the quality of education and training for young people;
achieve sustainable development and climate change goals;
ensuring that the region is prepared to address global challenges.
In addition, the regulation sets out a number of specific objectives, including:
strengthening gender equality and the empowerment of women and girls in EU external action and increasing efforts to reach the minimum standards of performance indicated by the EU Gender Action Plans;
promoting good neighbourly relations and regional cooperation;
developing the capacity of regional and cross-border cooperation, territorial development and regional integration;
contributing to the sustainable development of the region and to the fight against climate change.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
It entered into force on 1 January 2021.
BACKGROUND
 
The WBA is a candidate country for European Union membership. The European Commission emphasised the firm, merit-based prospect of EU membership for the region in its communication of 6 February 2018 entitled ‘A credible enlargement perspective for and enhanced EU engagement with the West Balkans.’
For more information, see:
Western Balkans (European External Action Service).
MAIN DOCUMENT
   கமா  
Commission Implementing Regulation (EU, 2021/909) of 21 December 2021 establishing an Instrument for Pre‐Enlargement Assistance to the Beneficiaries Listing in Annex II of the Protocol on the Accession of the Member States to the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU (OJ L 347, 31.12.2021, pp. 1–8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EEC, 2021–2020) have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 04.02.2022



Summary 29:
EU development cooperation instrument (EDI) 2018-2030 — implementing the 2030 Agenda and the Addis Ababa Action Agenda (ODA)
EU Development Cooperation Instrument (ODA) 2018/2030
SUMMARY OF:
Implementing Decision (EU) 2019/2031 establishing the EU development cooperation Instrument
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DECISION AND OF THE INITIATION?
The decision establishes the European Union’s (EU's) instrument for development cooperation.
The instrument aims to provide the EU with a common approach to development cooperation by the EU and its Member States to implement the sustainable economic, social and environmental development of developing countries, with the primary aim of eradicating poverty, as well as to strengthen international peace, preventing conflicts and strengthening international security.
KEY POINTS
The objective of the instrument is to:
contribute to the achievement of the 2030 Sustainable Development Agenda (Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs);
support the implementation of the EU 2030 Agenda;
promote sustainable development in Africa, Asia and Latin America;
support regional cooperation in the area of security, migration, climate change and the environment;
strengthen regional cooperation with the African Union (ACP) and the Caribbean and Pacific (ACP).
The development cooperation policy also contributes to the EU's external action, in particular to foster sustainable economic and social development in developing countries.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
  
The Instrument entered into force on 1 January 2019.
It has been in force since 1 January 2018.
.
BACKGROUND
The 2030 Agenda is a transformative framework to eradicate poverty and achieve sustainable development globally. The 2030 Agenda, together with the Paris Agreement adopted under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (the ‘Paris Agreement’), and the 3rd International Conference on Financing for Development (the AddisAbroad Action Agenda, the ‘Addis Abuba Action Agenda’, is the international community's response to global challenges and trends in relation to sustainable development.
For more information, see:
‘The EU's development cooperation instruments’ on the European Commission's website.
MAIN DOCUMENTS
Decision No 1/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 December 2018 establishing the European Development Cooperation instrument (OJ L 294, 1.1.2019, pp. 1-24)
Council Decision (EEC) No 1.2019 establishing the Instrument for Development Cooperation (ODI) (Official Journal L 294 of 21.12.2019)
last update 27.02.2021



Summary 30:
Whistleblowers’ protection: new rules for the protection of whistle-blowers (EU directive on the protection against reprisals) (Directive (EU) 2017/1371)
Whistle-blower’s protection: New rules for protecting whistleblowers
SUMMARY OF:
Directive 2013/30/EU — protection of whistleblowers
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DIRECTIVE?
It aims to improve the protection for whistleblowers who report breaches of EU law that are harmful to the public interest.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The directive applies to all EU countries. It does not apply to the EU countries not bound by the EU financial services directive.
EU countries must ensure that whistleblowers are protected against retaliation for reporting evasive and/or abusive arrangements that could otherwise go undetected, with a view to strengthening the ability of competent authorities to safeguard the proper functioning of the internal market and remove distortions and barriers to trade that affect the competitiveness of businesses in the EU, and that are directly linked to the free movement of businesses.
It does not cover:
public procurement;
the supply of products or the provision of services.
Reporting of breaches by whistleblowers can be key to detecting and preventing, reducing or eliminating risks to public health and to consumer protection resulting from breaches of Union rules, which might otherwise remain hidden.
In addition, whistleblowers can help to disclose breaches in the area of the food chain and animal health, protection and welfare, as well as on animal health and welfare.
the protection of personal data.
Scope of the directive
the directive covers:
food and feed safety;
animal health;
environmental protection;
health and welfare;
security;
information security.
information protection.
Protection of whistleblowers’ personal data
The legislation also applies to:
employers’ organisations;
public authorities;
contractors’ bodies;
state authorities; and
the European Anti-Fraud Office for the Prohibition of Transnational Organised Crime (OLAF).
Scope and scope
The scope of the legislation does not include:
the provision of goods and services;
recipients’ rights and obligations in relation to the execution of works, the supply of goods or services, or
the procurement of products and services, and
public access to information.
Exemptions from protection
The law does not extend to the following areas:
transport and logistics;
human resources management;
social security;
employment and social security systems;
education and training;
emergency services and health and safety.
References
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Council Directive 2013/29/EU
5.12.2013
-
OJ L 127 of 5.12 of the same day.
RELATED ACTS
Regulation (EC) No 552/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2014 on the Protection of Whistleblower Protection (Official Journal L 347 of 11.12-2014).
last update 04.01.2016



Summary 31:
European integrated border management
European integration of the external borders
SUMMARY OF:
Implementing Regulation (EU) 2019/852 — strengthening the European Border and Coast Guard (EBCG)
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes the European Union Agency for the Protection of the Borders of the Schengen Area (EUBG).
It aims to strengthen the EBCG’s capacity to respond to any challenges at its external borders.
KEY POINTS
The EUBG has a mandate to:
prevent and detect cross-border crime, such as migrant smuggling, trafficking in human beings and terrorism, where it has obtained relevant information through its activities;
cooperate with EU countries and the European Commission on border surveillance and the carrying out of border checks;
ensure constant preparedness at both EU and national levels;
organise and coordinate rapid border interventions and rapid border response teams;
provide information and cooperation between EU countries’ national authorities and the ECBG;
exchange information and cooperate with the Commission.
The regulation establishes a multiannual cycle for providing strategic guidelines to all the relevant actors at EU level and at national level in the area of border management and return so that those actors are able to implement European integrated border control in a coherent manner.
It also establishes a framework for the exchange of information and the operational cooperation between the EGBG and the Commission, as well as for the establishment of a standing corps (the ‘standing corps’).
The standing corps are composed of officers from EU countries. They are responsible for:
border surveillance and border control;
border control and border surveillance; and
border checks.
In addition, the standing corps:
are equipped with:
emergency response equipment;
are based in the EU countries;
operate at the request of the competent authorities of the EU and the Member States;
have the capacity to detect small vessels;
carry out search and rescue operations;
conduct risk analysis and risk assessments;
coordinate rapid border intervention and rapid response teams.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
The implementing regulation has applied since 1 May 2019.
BACKGROUND
The European Union has adopted a number of measures to improve the protection of its borders and to restore the normal functioning of the area. Since taking up its responsibilities on 1 May 2005, it has been successful in assisting Member States with implementing the operational aspects of external border management through joint operations, risk analysis, information exchange, relations with non-EU countries, and the return of returnees.
Since the beginning of the migratory crisis in 2015, the Commission has taken up important initiatives and has proposed a series of measures with a view to strengthening the security of the borders and restoring the normal function of the European Schengun area.
For more information, see:
European integrated borders (European Commission).
MAIN DOCUMENT
   
 
Commission Implementing Regulation(EU) 2018/853 of 21 March 2018 laying down the operational framework for strengthening the capacity of the Agency of the Protection and Border Guard of the Union (EubG) (OJ L 157, 22.4.2018, pp. 1-8)
RELATED DOCUMENTS
  i.e. Implementing Regulations (EC) No 1053/2013 and (EC, Euratom) No 552/2013 of the Council and of the Representatives of the Governments of the States meeting within the Council on the implementation of Council Regulation (Eurosur) No 1 May 2013 on the European Integrated Border Management and on the reintegration of the Commission into the Community of the Regions, and repealing Council Regulation No 1054/2013 (Oj L 127, 28.5.2013, p. 1)
Regulation (EU), Euratom No 556/2013 establishing the European Customs Union (ECBU) and the Customs Union of the Community (ECU) as the customs union and establishing the Customs and Border Protection Agency (EUROSUR).
See consolidated version.
last update 28.02.2021



Summary 32:
Information and communications technology (ICT) cybersecurity
Information and communication technology
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) 2016/1148 on cybersecurity
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes the European Network and Information Security Agency (ENISA).
It aims to improve cybersecurity in the EU so that network and information systems, communications networks, digital products, services and devices used by citizens, organisations and businesses are better protected from cyber threats.
KEY POINTS
The regulation sets out ENISA’s tasks.
It is responsible for:
ensuring that the security of the ICT products, ICT services or ICT processes designed by organisations and the public sector are configured in a way that ensures a higher level of security, thereby reducing the burden on users of having to configure an ICT product.
Assisting the development and updating of cybersecurity strategies at EU level and, upon request, at EU country level, in particular on cybersecurity, and promoting the dissemination of such strategies and follow the progress of their implementation.
Ensuring the exchange of best practices between EU countries.
Providing operational support to the operational cooperation of EU countries in the field of cybersecurity.
Implementing the Cybersecurity Strategy of the European Union (2013) and the last revision of ENISA's mandate.
In addition, the regulation establishes a Cooperation Group created by the regulation. It is composed of representatives of the EU countries, the European Commission and the European Institute of Cybersecurity (EICS).
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
The Regulation has applied since 1 January 2017.
The Directive has applied from 1 January 2018.
BACKGROUND
   
 
For more information, see:
‘Cybersecurity’ on the ENISA website.
* KEY TERMS
* Cybersecurity: the ability of a network or information system to be breached and to respond quickly and effectively. It includes, among other things, the ability to detect, prevent and respond to cyber threats, as well as the prevention of and response to these threats. It also includes, for example, the protection of information and communication technologies (ICTs) against the threat of cyber attacks.
ACT
  барканска грака 
Council Regulation (EC) No 1148/2016 of 21 December 2016 on cybersecurity and establishing a European Network Security Agency.
RELATED ACTS
Directive 2013/34/EC of the Parliament and of the Council of 22 December 2013 on the protection and resilience of the information and communications infrastructure against cyber threats and repealing Directives 92/8/EC and 92/9/EC (OJ L 347, 24.12.2013, pp. 1-8)
Directives 2003/361/EC, 2003/109/EC or 2003/111/EC establishing the European Information Security Authority (EISA) and 2003/113/EC creating the European Cybersecurity Agency (EIA) (O J L 347 of 24.11.2003, pp 1-2)
See consolidated version.
last update 04.01.2018



Summary 33:
Gross national product (GNI) and Gross national income (GNA) data
Gross National Product (GNI)* data
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 549/2013 establishing a procedure to verify and assess the comparability, reliability and exhaustiveness of Gross National Product and Gross National Income data
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes a procedure for the European Commission to verify, assess and verify the quality and reliability of the comparable, reliable and exhaustive quality of gross national product and gross national income data.
It repeals Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1287/2003 and repeals Council Decision 2014/335/EU.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation sets out the methodology for the calculation of the gross national productivity (GNP) and gross domestic product (GDP) data and GNI.
GDP is the final result of the production activity of resident producer units. It is also the balancing item in the total economy production account;
expenditure approach: GDP is the sum of final uses of goods and services by resident institutional units (final consumption and gross capital formation) plus exports and minus imports of goods, services and services;
income approach: Gross income account (compensation of employees, taxes on production and imports less subsidies, gross operating surplus and mixed income of the economy).
EU countries must calculate GNI as defined in Article 1 in the context of national accounts compilation.
The Commission (Eurostat) is responsible for the verification of the quality of the GNI data. It carries out GNI information visits in order to verify the sources, their uses and the methods in the inventory of GNI aggregates and their components and to verify compliance with ESA 2010, as well as to ensure that the data are comparable.
In order to ensure the reliability, exhaustiveness and highest possible degree of comparability of the data, the power to adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 290 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) is delegated to the Commission in respect of the list of issues to be addressed in every verification cycle. The Commission must establish, by means of implementing acts, specific measures to make GNI and GDP data more comparable and exhaustive, based on the list defined in the delegated acts referred to in the second subparagraph of paragraph 2 of this regulation.
Implementing acts
Each year, the Commission must draw up an inventory guide in close cooperation with the expert group set up by the GNP Committee and the European System of Social and Economic Accounts Committee (ESSC). The inventory guide must be consistent with the ESA 2010 and duplication and overloading must be avoided.
National statistical authorities of EU countries and Eurostat must cooperate closely in the preparation of the inventory guide.
Every 5 years, Eurostat carries out verification visits to each EU country to check the quality, the reliability and the exhaustiveness of the information it has collected.
Each 5-year verification cycle, it must submit a report to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee, the Committee of the Regions and the Commission on the results of the verification visits and on the implementation of the implementing acts.
Repeal
This regulation repeals and replaces Council Regulation (EEC) No 1193/2003.
FROM WHEN DOES THE REGULE APPLY?
   
 
It has applied since 18 April 2013.
BACKGROUND
  * KEY TERMS
* Gross national product: an annual GNI at market prices under the methodology set out in Article 2(7) of the EU system of accounts (ESA 2010) which established the revised European system of Accounts (see summary).
* GDP: the final product of the final production of resident producers units.
** Gross domestic product: the total output of the total economic activity of all resident producers.
* Income account: the income of resident employees.
ACT
Council Regulation (U.S.A. 2017/852/EU of 18 April 2017 establishing a process for the verification and assessment of the reliability of Gross national Product (GNG) data (OJ L 127, 18.4.2017, pp. 1-13)
Successive amendments to Regulation (USA) 2017/1252 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 18.02.2021



Summary 34:
EU type-approval rules for vehicles and systems following the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union
EU type approval rules for vehicle and system approvals following the departure of the UK
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) 2016/1628 on the application of certain EU rules relating to vehicle type approval
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out the rules for applying EU type approval* rules to vehicles, systems, components and separate technical units which fall within the scope of Directive 2007/46/EC (see summary).
It repeals and replaces Regulation (EC) No 167/2013 on type approval.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to the following types of vehicles:
vehicles and systems:
cars and systems of all types;
light commercial vehicles;
motorcycles;
trucks;
categories of light commercial vehicles.
It does not apply to certain types of systems, such as airbags, fire extinguishers, seat belts and seat belts.
Vehicle type approval procedures
Manufacturers may apply on a voluntary basis for a European Union type approval of a vehicle type previously approved in the UK, on the basis of certain requirements applicable to new types of system, components or separate technical unit, where the type of vehicle remains otherwise identical to the one approved in that country.
The vehicle manufacturer must notify the European Commission of the vehicle type they wish to be approved. The European Commission, which is responsible for granting EU type approvals, must inform the manufacturer of the new EU authority that is to be set up.
before the vehicle is placed on the EU market.
If a vehicle manufacturer wishes to apply for a type approval, the manufacturer must:
apply for a EU typeapproval for a vehicle of the same type as the one previously approved by the UK type approval authority;
use the procedure set out in the regulation;
apply to the new authority for the approval of vehicles of a different type than the one already approved by that authority.
When the vehicle manufacturer submits a vehicle for EU approval, it must inform that the vehicle meets all the requirements of the regulation and that it has been approved in accordance with the rules of the EU. The vehicle manufacturer may also apply to the EU authority to assume obligations regarding recalls, repair and maintenance information and in-service conformity checks with respect to their vehicles. The EU authority granting the EU type–approval takes over those obligations also with respect of vehicles, components, components* based on the same types and already placed on EU markets.
Where the EU–UK type‑approval procedure is not sufficiently achieved by the EU Member States but can rather, by reason of its scale and effects, be better achieved at EU level, the Union may adopt measures in order to ensure that there is a responsible type–appraval authority. The regulation also provides for an exemption from the specific requirements concerning the designation and notification of technical services of third countries.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
The Regulation has applied since 30 March 2019.
BACKGROUND
The United Kingdom withdraws from the EU and becomes a third country (non-EU country) as of 1 January 2020.
For more information, see:
The EU’s vehicles and vehicles systems (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Vehicle type: any vehicle, system or component of any type which is intended for sale in the Member States.
* System: any type of system or technical unit that is intended to be installed on a vehicle.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 1628/2016 of 30 March 2016 on the approximation of the laws of Member States relating to type approval (OJ L 157, 30.3.2016, pp. 1-18)
Successive amendments to Regulation (Euratom) 2016 /1628 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 27.02.2021



Summary 35:
Europol regulation on data protection and personal data protection
Europol Regulation on the protection and data protection of personal data
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 552/2009 on the regulation on the application of the European Police Office (Europol)
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes the legal basis for Europol, the European Union’s (EU) police office.
It sets out the rules and conditions for the processing of data by Europol.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to all EU countries, EU bodies, third countries, international organisations and, under stringent conditions, private parties, as well as data coming from publicly available sources, in order to develop an understanding of criminal phenomena and trends, to gather information about criminal networks, and to detect links between different criminal offences.
EU countries must provide Europol with all relevant information, with the exception of data relating to personal data, to the extent necessary for the performance of its tasks.
When Europol requests information, EU countries must also include information about any alleged cyber attacks and bilateral and multilateral exchanges of information with other EU countries on crime falling within Europol's objectives.
The management board of Europol is appointed by the European Commission and the EU countries to effectively supervise its work. It is assisted by a Management Board of Eurojust.
Member States must ensure that Europol and Eurojust have access to, in a reciprocal manner within their respective mandates, access to and the information that has been provided for the purpose of cross-checking in accordance with specific safeguards and guarantees provided for in this regulation.
In exceptional cases, Member States may cooperate directly with competent authorities in Member States, subject to the conditions defined by Member States.
Personal data are transferred to Europol only if necessary for preventing and combating crime that falls within its objectives. Member States and international organisations must determine the purpose or purposes for which Europol may process the data they provide and to restrict access rights.
Where personal data cannot be transferred, the recipient must give an undertaking that the data will be used by the recipient or transferred onward to a competent authority of a non-EU country solely for the original purpose for which they were originally transferred.
Data protection
The Management Board, in agreement with the European Data Protection Supervisor (EDPS) is responsible for the protection of the personal data of EU citizens. The EDPS has the power to authorise Europol to transfer personal data in exceptional cases where specific rules so require and authorise the transfer of the data to the competent authorities of an EU country or to an international organisation. It must also ensure that personal data are stored in a secure, anonymous and unauthorised manner and that the transfer is subject to appropriate safeguards.
If personal data is transferred to an organisation other than Europol for a specific purpose, the transfer must be based on an adequacy decision, an international agreement concluded by the EU or an existing cooperation agreement, or on a request from a Member State, the Management Board must authorise a set of specific rules for the transfer. The Management Board is assisted in this process by the Executive Director of the Europol Directorate-General for Law Enforcement and Security.
All Member States are required to keep Europol informed of any serious cyber attacks affecting their information systems and to provide it with the fullest and most up-to-date information possible. When Europol receives a request for information on a serious attack of suspected criminal origin against information systems affecting EU bodies or two or more Member States it must respond to it without delay, taking into account the fact that the rapidity of the response is a key factor in successfully tackling computer crime.
Information provided by the Member States must be made available to the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF), Eurojust and the European Judicial Network (EJN).
The European Commission, the Council of the EU and Member States should ensure that the management board is fully informed of all requests for information from the Member State concerned and that it is kept informed of the results of these requests. The management board must also make efforts to limit the turnover of its representatives, with a view to ensuring the continuity of its work, while keeping the national units informed at the latter's request.
Each Member State must also inform the European Parliament and the Council, the Court of Justice and the Committee of the Regions of any amendments to the regulation. The regulation repeals Decision 2009/371/JHA on the establishment of a European police office (the Europol Convention) and its subsequent amendments to it.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
The Regulation has applied since 1 January 2010.
BACKGROUND
   
 
For more information, see:
European Police Office
About Europol (European External Action Service).
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EC), Euratom, Euratom and Euratom Implementing Regulation (Euratom).
Successive



Summary 36:
European instrument for temporary support to mitigate unemployment risks in an emergency (SURE) following the COVID-19 outbreak (until 1 February 2020)
European instrument of temporary support for temporary help to mitigate employment risks in the labour market following COVID‐19 outbreak
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 332/2002 establishing a European instrument for short-time work schemes
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes a European Instrument for Temporary Support to Mitigate Unemployment Risks in an Emergency following the outbreak caused by COVID‑19.
It enables the European Union (EU) to grant EU financial assistance to an EU country that is in difficulties or is seriously threatened with severe difficulties caused by exceptional occurrences beyond its control.
KEY POINTS
The instrument is designed to provide short-term support to EU countries in the event of an outbreak of a contagious communicable disease.
EU countries may request assistance under the Instrument (‘financial assistance’) where its actual and possibly also planned public expenditure has suddenly and severely increased as of 1 February 2019 due to national measures directly related to short-temporary work schemes and similar measures to address the socio-economic effects of the exceptional occurrence caused by the outbreak.
The Member States concerned must provide the European Commission with:
the amount of the loan, its maximum average maturity, its pricing formula, the maximum number of instalments, its availability period and the other detailed rules needed for the granting of the financial assistance;
a description of the national schemes or similar measures;
an assessment of the impact of the outbreak on the labour markets of the Member States;
evidence of the measures taken by Member States to mitigate the impact on employment for individuals and the most affected economic sectors;
information of the compliance with the conditions set out in the regulation.
Member States must also provide the Commission with the following information:
an estimate of the costs of the expenditure;
the total contingent liabilities of the EU, including under the balance of payments facility established by Council Regulation (EC).
The Commission may, on a proposal from the Commission, draw on the margin available under the own-resources ceiling for payment appropriations to the extent that it is deemed sustainable by the Commission.
In addition, Member States are required to provide guarantees. These guarantees are irrevocable, unconditional and on demand, while additional safeguards are in place to enhance the robustness of the system.
Where the Commission considers that the Member State concerned has not complied with the regulation’s conditions, it may grant financial assistance. The Commission may also extend the period of availability of the instrument where the exceptional occurrences that justify the application of this regulation continue to exist.
FROM WHEN DOES THE REGULE APPLY?
   
 
It has applied since 1 February 2002.
BACKGROUND
  The COVID outbreak has had a massive and disruptive impact on the economic systems of Member States, caused societal disruptions and increased public expenditure in a growing number of Member countries.
For more information, see:
‘Short-term work schemes’ (European Commission).
MAIN DOCUMENT
  Е
Council Decision 2002/332/2002 of 21 December 2002 establishing a specific instrument for the temporary support of short-timers in an economic emergency (the ‘SURE Instrument’).
Successive amendments to Council Regulation 2002/2002 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 04.02.2020



Summary 37:
Recovery and resolution of financial institutions in the event of a failure of a clearing house (CCP) (Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 on the recovery and resolution framework for financial institutions (Recovery & Resolution of Financial Institutions) (SUMMARY OF:
Regulation on the Recovery & Resolution Framework for the Recovery and Resolution of Credit Clearing Houses
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes a framework for the recovery & resolution of credit clearing houses (CCPs).
It aims to ensure that if a financial institution or a financial market infrastructure that is active in this market faces financial distress or is at the point of failure, such an event does not de-stabilise the entire financial market and damage growth across the EU.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The aim of the regulation is to:
ensure that CCPs set out measures to recover from financial distress, to maintain the critical functions of a CCP which is failing or likely to fail while winding up the remaining activities through normal insolvency proceedings;
avoid a significant adverse effect on the financial system and its ability to serve the real economy while minimising the cost to taxpayers of the CCP’s failure.
Recovery plans
CCPs must set out detailed recovery plans for the following:
a recovery plan for the CCP;
a resolution plan for a CCP that is failing;
the resolution of a failing CCP.
The recovery plan must cover the following aspects:
the recovery of CCPs’ assets and liabilities;
recovery specific stresses to the CCP, that would endanger its viability;
an assessment of the risk of contagion in a crisis, both domestic and cross-border.
the allocation of losses between CCPs, clearing members and, where applicable, their clients.
Resolution plans
The resolution plan must include a recovery plan and a resolution plan.
EU countries’ competent authorities and resolution authorities must be involved in the process of the resolution of failing CCPs. The authorities must provide appropriate justification for their participation, based on their analysis of the negative impact that the resolution could have on their EU countries, to the resolution authority of the CCP.
In addition, EU countries must ensure that the competent authorities have adequate tools at their disposal to handle situations involving CCP failures. These tools should include:
measures to be taken by the CCP to restore its capital and liquidity;
measures taken by CCPs to maintain its critical functions;
procedures to be applied by the resolution authorities to deal with CCPs that fail.
Regulatory oversight and supervision
The regulation sets out the responsibilities of the European Commission, the European Banking Authority and the competent national authorities of EU countries in the case of a failed CCP. It also sets out rules on:
regulatory oversight of the recovery plans and resolution plans;
supervisory treatment of the related exposures towards the CCP. The Commission must also take into account the operational, personal and financial relations of the group entities, insofar it could affect the recovery or resolution actions of the company or could have an impact on other entities in the group.
Implementation of the framework
The framework must be implemented in line with the principles and procedures laid down in Regulation (EC) No 596/2008 on the prudential supervision of credit institutions (see summary). It must also be implemented by the European Central Bank (ECB) and the European Insurance and Financial Services Authority (EIFSA).
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
Directive 2012/48/EU has applied since 1 January 2012.
It repeals Regulation No 647/2008 and its subsequent amendments.
BACKGROUND
The European Commission has adopted a number of measures to improve the functioning of the single market in financial services, including:
Implementing Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 852/2008 establishing a single market for financial services;
Delegated Regulation (Euratom) 2015/852 establishing a common framework for prudential oversight of credit and credit institutions;
Commission Delegated Regulations (EC and Euratom).
For more information, see:
Credit Clearing House (European Commission).
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Decision 2012/24/EU
1.1.2012
-
OJ L 127 of 1.1 of 2012
RELATED ACTS
Commission Implementing Regulation(EU) 2016/856 of 27 December 2016 laying down a framework on the resolution and recovery and recovery of credit Clearing houses (OJ C 202 of 27.12.2016).
Commission Decision (EU), Euratom and the EIFSA of 26 December 2016 establishing the common framework on credit institutions and credit facilities for credit institutions, credit facilities and credit services and amending Implementing Regulations (EUR) No 496/2009, (



Summary 38:
European Year for the European Railways (2020-2021) (European Green Deal)
European Year For the European Railway (2021-2022)
SUMMARY OF:
Decision (EU) 2020/852 — European Year for Railways
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DECISION?
It establishes a European Year to promote rail as a sustainable, innovative, interconnected and intermodal, safe and affordable mode of transport.
The European Green Deal is a new growth strategy that aims to transform the EU into a fair and prosperous society, with a modern, resource-efficient and competitive economy where there are no net emissions of greenhouse gases in 2050 and where economic growth is decoupled from resource use.
To achieve climate neutrality, a 90% reduction in transport emissions is needed by 2050. To achieve this, rail transport must be a game-changer in the fight against climate change. This year, the European Year aims to promote the role of rail in achieving the EU’s climate neutrality objective.
KEY POINTS
The objectives of the year are to:
promote rail as an environmentally sound, sustainable, interconnected, intermodally, safe, affordable and cost-effective mode of transportation;
ensure that rail is a pillar of an efficient logistic network, capable of guaranteeing essential services, even during unexpected emergencies;
improve the safety and security of rail passengers and freight;
strengthen the European rail system, particularly in light of the COVID-19 crisis;
reduce costs and administrative burden for railway undertakings operating across the EU;
increase the efficiency of the rail system;
raise awareness of the importance of rail transport;
encourage businesses to switch their transport to rail.
Coordination of activities
The year is to be closely coordinated with on-going activities promoting rail transport. It will be the first year where the rules agreed under the Fourth Railway Package will be implemented throughout the EU, namely on the opening of the market of domestic passenger services, on reducing costs, administrative burden and technical barriers for rail undertakings, as well as on providing Railways with additional tasks that aim to lower technical barriers.
International cooperation
The Commission will, where necessary, cooperate with competent international organisations, while ensuring the visibility of the EU's participation in the year.
In addition, the Commission will invite the participation of the Member States and relevant non-governmental organisations, universities and technology centres to assist it in implementing the year at EU level.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
The decision entered into force on 1 January 2021.
BACKGROUND
   
The Council of the European Union has adopted a number of measures aimed at promoting rail. These include:
the creation of a European Rail Traffic Management System (ERTMS), terminals offering modal shift options, and modernised rolling stock.
For more information, see:
European Rail Year (European Commission).
MAIN DOCUMENTS
 
  барканска гранка  гъланца
Council Decision of 15 December 2020 establishing a European year for rail (OJ L 852, 15.12.2020, pp. 1-15)
last update 04.02.2021



Summary 39:
European Security and Defence College (ESDC) (European Union institute for security and defence policy (EUISS)
European Security & Defence College
SUMMARY OF:
Decision (CFSP) 2016/2382 — establishment, mission, objectives and tasks
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DECISION AND OF THE REGULATION?
The decision establishes the European Security and Defense College (ESSDC).
The purpose of the ESDC is to provide training and education in the field of the EU’s common defence and security policy (CSDP) in the wider context of the Common Foreign and Security Policy at European level in order to develop and promote a common understanding of CFSP and CSDP among civilian and military personnel and to identify and disseminate best practices in relation to these issues.
The regulation sets out the tasks and objectives of the ESCDC.
KEY POINTS
The ESDC:
has the legal capacity to:
fulfil its tasks and meet its objectives;
enter into contracts and administrative arrangements necessary for its functioning including to implement staff secondments and recruit contract staff;
acquire equipment, in particular teaching equipment;
hold bank accounts;
be a party to legal proceedings.
Organisation
The ESCDC is organised as a network bringing together all the relevant actors in the area of CSDP, including:
civil and military institutes, colleges, academies, universities, institutions, centres of excellence and other actors dealing with security, defence policy issues within the EU as identified by EU countries;
the European Union Institute for Security Studies Centre of Excellence, as well-known for its expertise in the EUISS;
EUISS publications, including through EUISS publications.
Training and education activities
ESDC conducts its own training activities within the limits of its own capabilities. These include:
exchange of experience and best practice;
exchanges of information and best practices on CSDP issues;
research and dissemination of best practice in CSDP-related areas;
cooperation with the European Defence and Security Agency (EDSA) and the European Union Agency for Security Cooperation and Cooperation in Europe (EUSCE);
training and education of experts in the fields of cybersecurity and defence;
organisation of conferences, symposia and workshops;
coordination with other activities of the Union.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
The Council of the European Community established the European ESDC on 23 June 2008. It repeals Council Joint Action 2008/550/CFSP.
BACKGROUND
The European Council adopted the European Initiative for the Exchange of Young Officers on 10 and 11 November 2008, inspired by the Erasmus programme and agreed that an implementing working party will meet within the framework of the Executive Academic Board.
For more information, see:
European Union Institute of Security Studies (European External Action Service).
MAIN DOCUMENTS
Council Decision (EC) No 479/2016 of 23 June 2016 establishing the European security and defense College (ECSC) (OJ L 347, 23.8.2016, pp. 1-5)
Council Regulation (EU) No 552/2013 of 27 May 2013 establishing the EU Institute for security studies (EUIS) (ECS) (EOSCE) and repealing Council Decision 2013/189/CFPS (EoSCE).
Successive amendments to Council Decision (EASCE) No 445/2013 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
Council Resolution of 27 March 2013 establishing a European Security & Defense College and repealing Decision 2013 /189/CSDP (EESCE) (Official Journal L 136, 27.3.2013, pp.).
last update 25.02.2021



Summary 40:
Water reuse: minimum requirements for urban waste water treatment plants
Water reuse : minimum requirements to be met
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 1881/2011 laying down minimum standards for water reuse
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes minimum rules for urban wastewater treatment plants to be reused for agricultural irrigation.
It sets out the rules for the drawing up of a water reuse risk management plan and for the granting of a permit for the production and supply of reclaimed water.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to treated urban wastewater water from urban waste-water treatment plants. It does not apply to treated municipal wastewater.
The water is reused only when it enters a collecting system and is subject to treatment in an urban wastewater-treatment plant.
Reused water is treated in accordance with Directive 91/271/EEC on the reuse of urban wastewater for agricultural purposes.
EU countries must ensure that the water is not used for human consumption and that it meets the needs of the end-users regarding crop categories.
In order to effectively protect the environment and human and animal health, reclamation facility operators are responsible for the quality of the reclaimed water at the point of compliance with the regulation. They must draw up a risk-management plan for the water reuse. This must include the following:
the risk assessment of the water’s potential health and environmental risks;
the protection of water bodies used for the abstraction of water intended for human or animal consumption and relevant safeguard zones;
a description of the risks to the environment.
the information to be provided to the public and the water treatment plant operators;
information to be given to the European Commission and the European Parliament and the Council of the European Economic and Social Committee on water and energy policy.
Permits are issued by the competent authority for the grant of the permit to the operator of a wastewater treatment plant. Permits are valid for a period of 5 years. The maximum duration of the 5-year permit is 6 years.
Where the water has been treated in a treatment plant, the EU country concerned must apply for a permit from the Commission. The Commission must inform the Commission of the reasons for granting the permit.
When the Commission issues a permit, the applicant must provide the Commission with the following information:
a list of the types of water to be treated and the type of water used;
details of the sources of the treated water;
an inventory of the quantities of treated and untreated urban wastewater that have been reused.
If the Commission considers that there is a risk of contamination, it must issue a permit to a person or company that has been authorised to use the treated wastewater for the purpose of using it for the purposes of agricultural irrigation, the Commission must issue the same permit to that person or entity.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
The Regulation has applied since 1 January 2012.
BACKGROUND
   
For more information, see:
‘Urban Waste Water Reuse Regulation’ on the Commission's website.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Council Regulation (EC) No 2073/2005
1.1.2012
-
OJ L 157, 1.2.2012, pp. 1-18
RELATED ACTS
 
  The European Commission communication of 14 November 2012‘A Blueprint to Safeguard Europe's Water Resources’ points to the need to create an instrument to regulate standards at EU level for water-reuse, in order to remove the obstacles to a widespread use of such an alternative water supply option, namely one that can help to reduce water scarcity and lessen the vulnerability of supply systems.
Directive 2000/60/EC on water reuse, in combination with the promotion of water-efficient technologies in industry and water-saving irrigation techniques, is one of the supplementary measures Member States may choose to apply to achieve the objectives of good qualitative and quantitative water status for surface water bodies and groundwater bodies.
Regulations (EC, EC) No 178/2002 and (EC), No 852/2004 (11), (EC).
Directives 2006/7/EC, 2006/118/EC and 2008/105/EC (17) and 2011/92/EU (18) of the Parliament and of the Council, and Directives 2001/83/EC.
See consolidated version.
last update 04.02.2021



Summary 41:
EU Blue Card for highly qualified third-country nationals
European Union (EU) Blue Card — highly qualified non-EU nationals
SUMMARY OF:
Directive 2017/24/EU on the EU Blue Card
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DIRECTIVE?
   
It aims to improve the mobility and mobility of highly qualified, highly qualified EU citizens who are beneficiaries of the right to free movement*.
It sets out the conditions for the granting of an EU blue card.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The directive applies to highly qualified nationals who apply to reside in an EU country as researchers in order to carry out research projects, as they fall within the scope of Directive 2016/801 of the European Parliament and of the Council, which introduced a specific procedure for admitting third country nationals for the purpose of research.
It does not apply to:
non-EU citizens who have been granted international protection (e.g. the protection granted by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia or the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia);
third country nationals who have not yet been granted protection (i.e. those who are not citizens of the EU countries that granted them international protection);
those who have applied to live in another EU country for the purposes of research;
third-country national nationals who are covered by national residence permits.
Beneficiaries of free movement
The blue card is valid for a period of 5 years. It can be renewed for a further 5 years if the holder fulfils certain conditions, including:
a minimum salary threshold of €10,000 per annum for the duration of the 5 years;
a maximum annual salary of €20,000 for the period of the mobility period;
the holder’s residence permit of the country concerned;
an annual work contract of at least 2 years.
The employer may decide to pay a lower salary threshold for specific professions where the EU country concerned considers that there is a particular shortage of available workers and where such professions belong to major group 1 or 2 of the ISCO classification. The employer may also decide to lower the salary threshold if the employer considers that the work to be carried out is inherently demanding such competence.
Rights and conditions
The EU Blue card holder is subject to the same rights and conditions as any other non-European Union citizen.
Member States must ensure a level playing field between EU Blue Cards and national mobility permits, in terms of procedural and equal treatment rights, procedures and access to information.
In addition, Member States must:
ensure that the holder does not suffer from discrimination, including in the labour market;
allow the holder to enjoy additional rights and benefits under national law which are compatible with this directive;
notify the European Commission of any infringements of this directive.
Exemptions
This directive does not cover:
third countries that have granted the right of unrestricted movement of persons covered by the Schengen acquis (the free movement of people agreement between the European Union and its Member States) and third countries on the one hand, or between the EU and non-member countries (non-Member States covered by this directive);
the United Kingdom (1) and the United States of America (1);
any other Member State that granted the rights of unrestricted mobility to persons covered under this Directive.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS DIRECTIVE APPLY?
It has applied since 1 January 2018. Member States had to incorporate it into national law by 1 January 2019.
BACKGROUND
The European Commission communication of 13 May 2015 entitled ‘European Agenda on Migration’ calls for an attractive Union-wide scheme for highly-skilled migrants and specifies that a review of Council Directive 2009/50/EC (4) is needed to enable the Union to more effectively attract talent and thereby to address both the demographic challenges faced by the Union and labour and skills shortages in key sectors of the Union economy.
For more information, see:
‘European Blue Card’ on the Commission's website.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Council Directive 2017/23/EU
1.1.2018
-
OJ L 127, 1.1 of 1.2018, pp. 1-32
RELATED ACTS
 
Directives (EC) No 552/2008, (EC, Euratom) No 652/2009, (EU, Eurat) No 1052/2010, (Euratom), (EU), (EC), No 1053/2010 and (EU).
DirectIVE (EU/2014/EU) No 2111/EU of the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe and the Council of 11 December 2014 on the establishment of a European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights and Justice (EURAT) and amending Council Directives 2009/51/EC, 2009/52/EC and 2009/54



Summary 42:
Fund for the integration of third-country nationals
Finance for the migration and integration of non-EU nationals
Funding for the immigration and asylum policy of the European Union
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 516/2014 establishing the European Fund for the Integration of third country nationals
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
   
 
It sets up the European Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund (EAMF) for the period 2014-2020.
It aims to support the efforts of EU countries to develop, monitor and evaluate their asylum policies in the light of their obligations under EU law.
KEY POINTS
The EAMF’s main objectives are to:
ensure that EU countries’ asylum policies are based on a comprehensive, pragmatic and resolute approach to migration management;
promote integration measures that are tailored to the needs of third nationals;
encourage compliance with legal migration rules, thereby safeguarding the integrity of the immigration systems;
facilitate safe and dignified return and readmission and sustainable reintegration of returnees, including through the provision of cash or in-kind support.
The fund is funded by the European Social Fund (ESF+) and the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF).
It is co-financed under the ESF+ and ERDF.
EU countries are required to submit annual progress reports to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions on the implementation of the Fund.
the European Commission and the Council of the EU.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULATIONS APPLY?
The regulation has applied since 16 May 2014.
BACKGROUND
In its conclusions of 19 October 2017, the EU Council reaffirmed the need to pursue a comprehensive and pragmatic migration management that aims to ensure control of external borders and reduce irregular arrivals and the number of deaths at sea.
For more information, see:
‘Welcome to the EU’ on the European Commission's website.
REFERENCESF+
Act
Entry into force
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Fund for implementation
16.5.2014
-
OJ L 157 of 16.5 of 18.6.2014.
Amending act(s)
Entry to force
Date of expiry of the validity of the Regulation
16 May 2020
- The Fund will be in operation from 16 May 2020.
MAIN DOCUMENT
 			
Commission Implementing Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2018/852 of 16 May 2018 establishing the EU Fund for Integration of Third-Country Nationals (EUMF) (OJ C 202 of 18 May 2018).
Successive amendments to the Regulation have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
Regulations (EC) No 852/2013, (Euratom) No 479/2013 and (EUR) No 609/2013 of the Council and of the Representatives of the Governments of the Union on the establishment of a European Union Fund for Migration, Integration and Citizenship (EIMF) and repealing Council Regulation (EEC) no 575/2007/EC (EEMF) No 2111/2007 (EimF/2013).
Council Decision 2009/52/EC of 27 September 2009 establishing a European return fund for applicants for international protection and beneficiaries of international protection under the legal framework of the Common European Asylum System that applies at the time of adoption of this Regulation.
Council Directive 2009/54/EC establishing a new European Return Fund for those who are stateless persons in need of protection and who have been displaced by helping to alleviate the pressure on countries in regions to which or within which a large number of displaced persons have occurred.
Directive 2008/115/EC setting out common standards on return, with an emphasis on voluntary returns, and of an integrated and coordinated approach to return management.
See consolidated version.
last update 16.05.2021



Summary 43:
Parental leave and flexible working arrangements: ensuring equal treatment for both parents and carers (Directive 2018/18/EU)
Parents and carer’s leave: guaranteeing equal treatment between them and their employers
Children under the age of 18 are entitled to a minimum of 4.5 months of parental leave which cannot be transferred from one parent to the other, while mothers have the right to take at least 4 months of leave.
ACT
Directive 2017/24/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 November 2017 on the right of parents to take parental leave and of carers’ leave (Parental Directive)
SUMMARY
WHAT DOES THIS DIRECTIVE DO?
It establishes a minimum period of leave which can be taken by both parents.
It aims to encourage fathers to take this leave and to ensure that mothers do not lose out by not taking it.
KEY POINTS
The period within which workers should be entitled to take leave should be linked to:
the age of the child;
the duration of the contract or employment relationship between the worker and the employer; and
the number of working hours.
EU countries are free to decide whether to provide a payment or an allowance for carers' leave, in order to guarantee the effective take-up of the right by carers, in particular by men.
The maximum duration of leave should not exceed 4 months. However, EU countries may decide to extend this to a maximum of 6 months if the child is under 18.
Workers who exercise their right to parental leave must be informed of the length of the leave they wish to take. They must be able to make a request for a flexible working arrangement for the duration of their leave. The duration of this leave must not exceed 6 weeks.
When considering requests for flexibility working arrangements, employers must take into account, inter alia, the duration and operational capacity of the flexible working conditions requested and the employers’ resources and capacity to offer such arrangements.
Employers must ensure that workers who have been dismissed for not taking parental leave or who have not exercised their right of access to leave are protected from any discrimination on the grounds of gender.
In addition, the directive sets out the conditions under which workers who do not exercise their parental leave right may be subject to dismissal on grounds of sex.
FROM WHEN DOES THE DIRECTIVE APPLY?
The directive entered into force on 1 January 2018. EU countries had to incorporate it into national law by 1 January 2019.
BACKGROUND
 
For more information, see:
‘Taking parental leave’ on the European Commission's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Parental leave: the period of time during which a parent is not obliged to work to care for a child under 18 months old. It does not apply to leave granted to a parent who is not the primary breadwinner of the family or who has not been granted the same status as a parent himself.
MAIN DOCUMENT
   
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Council Directive 2017/23/EU
1.1.2018
-
OJ L 127 of 1.1 of January 2018
RELATED DOCUMENTS
                 Directive 2014/34/EU on parental leave (Official Journal L 94 of 22.3.2014)
Directives 2014/35/EU, 2014/36/EU and 2014/37/EU amending Directive 2013/13/EU concerning parental leave, and amending Directives 2010/18 and 2010/19/EU with regard to the duration, duration of and duration of maternity leave and parental leave as regards the period to be taken, and repealing Directive 2010/20/EU.
DirectIVE 2014/33/EU establishing a European system for the assessment of the impact of the implementation of the parental leave directive on the labour market and on the rights and obligations of employers and employees of workers with childcare responsibilities.
Communication from the Commission to European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions on the implementation and application of the Directive on the Right to Parental Leave and the Flexible Working Arrangements Directive (COM(2018) 696 final - Not published in the Official Journal).
last update 04.02.2021



Summary 44:
Defrauding the EU’s financial interests: criminal offences and sanctions
Frauding of the European Union’ s financial interests
SUMMARY OF:
Directive (EU) 2015/849 on fraud affecting the EU's financial interests.
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DIRECTIVE?
It establishes minimum rules relating to the definition of fraud and the application of EU countries’ criminal law and proceedings in the area of fraud.
It aims to protect the EU financial interests by:
ensuring that fraud* is criminalised;
providing for maximum levels of penalties for the offences covered by the directive.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The directive applies to:
fraud* at the expense of the general budget of the EU (the ‘EU budget’), including financial operations such as borrowing and lending activities.
The definition of ‘fraud’ includes:
the intentional misappropriation of funds or assets, contrary to the intended purpose;
the deliberate falsification of documents, documents or other documents;
defrauding or concealing the existence of assets;
falsification of financial statements.
Penalties
EU countries must apply maximum penalties of at least 4 years’ imprisonment for each of the following types of fraud:
serious fraud;
non-criminal offences;
infringements of EU institutions, bodies, offices and agencies;
violations of the common VAT system.
Sanctions for natural persons
The maximum level of penalties applicable to natural persons is at least four years of imprisonment.
individuals may be subject to fines of up to €10 000 000 for each type of fraud, depending on the nature of the offence.
In addition, EU countries must also apply maximum fines of €5 000 for offences committed on behalf of a legal person.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS DIRECTIVE APPLY?
The legislation entered into force on 1 January 2016. EU countries had to incorporate it into national law by 31 December 2015.
BACKGROUND
   
 
For more information, see:
‘Fraud affecting the Union's Financial Interests’ on the European Commission's website.
MAIN DOCUMENT
 			
   	
Council Directive (EU, Euratom).
Searches and prosecutions of fraud (OJ L 183, 31.12.2015, pp. 1–8)
RELATED DOCUMENTS
                                   
                 		 
Regulation (EC) No 45/2001 on the processing of personal data by the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 September 2001 concerning irregularities with regard to EU law.
  This regulation lays down general rules relating in particular to homogenous checks and to administrative measures and penalties concerning irregularities concerning irregularities in EU law while, at the same time, referring to sectoral rules in that area, fraudulent actions as defined in the Convention and the applying of the Member States' criminal law. It also lays down rules concerning the confidentiality of judicial rights and principles concerning the protection of judicial privileges.
Council Regulation (EU), Euratom and the European Economic and Social Committee (EEA) No 596/2006 on the application by Member States of the Convention on the Protection of European Communities’ financial interests of 26 July 1995 on the prevention and investigation of fraud affecting their financial interests (the Protocols thereto).
last update 27.02.2016



Summary 45:
Harmonisation of interchange fees for card-based payments and internet and mobile payments based on cards (Regulation (EU) No 260/2012)
Harmonomisation of the interchange fees and for cross-border transactions based on payment cards
SUMMARY OF:
Delegated Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2019/852 laying down the rules for the harmonisation of payment card interchange fees
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to harmonise the interchange* fees* for card and debit card transactions in the European Union (EU).
The regulation sets out the maximum level of the fees that payment card issuers* and payment service providers* must charge for the use of their payment card systems.
KEY POINTS
Interchange fees
The interchange fees are charged by the payment card issuer to the payment service provider (i.e. the bank that issues the card) for the purpose of processing the payment transactions. These fees are calculated on the basis of:
the merchant service charge to pay if the merchant were to compare the cost of the customer's use of a payment card with those of non-card (cash) payments (taking into account the fee for service paid to the acquiring banks);
the fee that the merchant must pay to the bank for processing the transactions.
To ensure that the interchange fee caps are set at an economically efficient level, the regulation allows national competent authorities to collect information regarding the volume and value of all payment card transactions or of the transactions pertaining to one or more payment services providers.
The European Commission has published a report on the implementation of the regulation. It concludes that the regulation has been largely successful in ensuring that the European payment card market is more competitive and efficient. However, it also notes that there is still room for improvement in the way the regulation is implemented.
In addition, there is a need to remove obstacles to the efficient functioning of the card market, including in the area of card-related payments. This regulation seeks to:
ensure that the fees charged by payment card schemes are set in a way that is economically efficient;
promote competition, innovation and market entry of new operators;
improve the quality of payment services for consumers and merchants;
facilitate cross-EU payment solutions.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
Directive 2013/13/EU sets out rules on interchange fees. It repeals Regulation (Euratom) No 1308/2006.
Regulation(EU) 2018/856 sets out a harmonisation procedure for the application of certain interchange fees in the EU.
BACKGROUND
European Union (European Commission)
European payment card system (European Central Bank).
KEY TERMS
* Interchange fee: a fee that is charged to the card issuer by the merchant to process a payment transaction.
* Debit card: a card that is issued to a merchant to facilitate the payment of a debit or credit card.
MAIN DOCUMENT
   
Commission Decision (EU), Euratom, of 23 November 2019 laying down rules for harmonisation for the first time of interchange fee and cross-bank payment card transaction fees (OJ L 347, 24.11.2019, pp. 1-24)
RELATED DOCUMENTS
 
  i.e.: Regulation (EC) No 1282/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 October 2006 laying down common rules on the application by the European Central Bank of certain rules relating to the interchange of credit and debit cards and to certain rules on payment card issuance and issuance of certain payment card products and services, and repealing Council Regulations (EC, EC, EC and EFTA) No 1008/2004, (EC), No 1009/2004 and (ECE) No 1017/2004 (Oj L 347 of 24.10.2006, p. 1)
last update 04.02.2021



Summary 46:
Transparency of skills and qualifications acquired in formal, non-formal and informal settings (‘Europass’) (European Commission)			
Europass
This Decision establishes a European framework to support the transparency and understanding of qualifications and skills acquired in informal, practical and voluntary settings, including through practical experiences, mobility and volunteering.
ACT
Council Decision (EU) No 1288/2013 of 20 June 2013 establishing a European Framework to support transparency and the understanding of skills acquired through formal, informal and voluntary learning (Europass).
SUMMARY
The Europass framework aims to:
ensure that persons with disabilities have equal access to the labour market and to information and communication technologies and systems;
improve the quality and relevance of skills formation, to make skills more visible and comparable and to improve skills intelligence and especially information for better career choices.
The decision sets up a portfolio of documents known as the Europass, which individuals can use on a voluntary basis. These documents describe their knowledge, skills and competences acquired through practical, informal or voluntary learning, as well as through volunteering, mobility or volunteering. They can be used to make decisions on employment and learning opportunities. They also provide information on validation opportunities, guidance and mobility.
In addition to professional skills, there is an acknowledgement that transversal or soft skills, such as critical thinking, team work, problem solving and creativity, digital or language skills, are increasingly important and are essential prerequisites for personal and professional fulfilment and can be applied in different fields. These skills are recognised in different forms, for example digital open badges. The Europass documents are designed to be easily accessible and easily understood by individuals, employers, guidance practitioners, education and training providers, social partners and employers’ associations.
References
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Decision 2013/1288/EU
20.6.2013
-
OJ L 136 of 20.7.2013.
RELATED ACTS
Regulation (EC) No 552/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 May 2014 establishing a multilingual European Skills, Competences, Qualifications and Occupations classification (ESCO) and amending Council Decision No 1286/2013 (OJ C 202 of 21.5.2014).
Council Recommendation of 20 December 2012 inviting Member States to have in place by 2018, in accordance with national circumstances and specificities, and as they deem appropriate, arrangements for the validation of the knowledge acquired through non formal and informal learning, which enable individuals to obtain a full qualification, or, where applicable, partial qualification.
Council Resolution of 28 May 2004 on strengthening policies, systems and practices in the field of guidance throughout life sets out the key objectives of a lifelong guidance policy for all citizens of the Union.
Last updated: 22.07.2014



Summary 47:
Transport of goods by inland waterways: transmission of data
Transport: transport of goods on inland waterways
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the transmission of European statistics on the transport of Goods by Inland Waterways (codified version)
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It codifies and repeals Regulation (Euratom) No 223/2009, which had to become law in the European Union (EU) countries by 1 February 2011.
It aims to ensure that the European Commission has access to reliable, up-to-date and comparable statistics on goods transported by inland waterways in the EU.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation covers:
the total volume of goods transported annually by inland waters as national transport;
the number of vessels used for non-commercial purposes by port administrations and public authorities;
vessels used solely for bunkering or storage;
vehicles not used for the carriage of goods such as fishery vessels, dredgers, floating workshops, houseboats and pleasure craft.
EU countries must supply the Commission (Eurostat) with a report containing such information and data as it may request in order to verify the quality of the data transmitted.
Delegated acts
The Commission is empowered to adopt delegated acts to adapt the definitions contained therein or to provide for new ones to take relevant definitions amended or adopted at international level into account. These delegated acts must be adopted in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 11(2).
Dissemination
European statistics must be disseminated with a frequency similar to that laid down in Regulation (EU, Euratom). The Commission is assisted by the European Statistical System Committee (ESSC), which is composed of representatives of the EU countries’ national statistical institutes and other national authorities. The ESC is responsible for:
assisting the Commission in the preparation of delegated acts;
providing technical assistance to Eurostat in the transmission and dissemination of data;
ensuring the confidentiality of the information transmitted and the data collection methods used;
contributing to the implementation of the delegated acts.
The ESC is assisted in this task by:
Eurostat,
the European statistical system committee and
the ESS.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
It entered into force on 1 February 2012.
BACKGROUND
   
For more information, see:
Inland waterways (European Commission).
MAIN DOCUMENT
  Егаранска грака
Commission Implementing Regulation (CE) No 392/2011 of 21 December 2011 on the Transmission of European Statistics on the Transport of Goods By Inland Waters (Codified Version) (OJ L 164, 31.12.2011, pp. 1-2)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EC, Eurat) No 395/2011 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
 
  IEC Implementing Decision (EU), Euratom and European Parliament of 27 November 2011 on statistical information on the transportation of goods in the Member States by inland Waterways and repealing Council Decision (EUR) No 229/2009 (OJR L 164 of 31.11.2011).
See consolidated version.
last update 04.02.2021



Summary 48:
Statistics at EU level on rail transport (Regulation (EC) No 223/2009)
Statistics at European Union (EU) level
SUMMARY OF:
Implementing Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 224/2009 on the production of rail transport statistics
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out common rules for the production and transmission of railway transport statistics at Union level.
It repeals and repeals Regulation No 91/2003.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to:
rail transport between 2 places (a place of loading/embarkation and a place of unloading/disembarking) located in the reporting country;
national transport between two places (the place where a rail vehicle is loaded/unloaded and the place where it is unloading or unloading).
It does not apply to the following:
light rail;
trains;
trams;
light-rail systems;
buses of locomotives;
transport by rail in the course of combined transport operations.
EU countries must report to the European Commission the total data for undertakings falling below the thresholds referred to in Annexes I and II if those data are not reported under Annexes III and IV, as specified in Annex VIII. Where a railway undertaking operates in more than one EU country, the national authorities concerned must require the undertaking to provide data separately for each country in which it operates so as to enable national statistics to be compiled.
The Commission may adopt implementing acts in accordance with Article 290 of the Treaty on the delegated acts adopted by the European Parliament, the Council and the European Economic and Social Committee of the European Union.
Quality criteria
The data to be transmitted to the Commission must meet the quality criteria set out in Article 12(1) of the regulation. The Commission must ensure that the data transmitted by the EU countries are of a high quality and that they comply with the quality requirements of the EU’s statistical system.
National authorities must transmit the data they receive from the European Statistical System Committee (ESC) to the EU Statistical Office (ESO). The ESO is responsible for the transmission of the data and for the analysis of the results of the transmission.
Transmission of data
Each year, the Commission transmits the data it receives from EU countries to the ESO, which then transmits them to Eurostat, the European statistical authority responsible for collecting and analysing EU-wide railway transport data. The European Commission must publish a report on the statistical actions that it has taken under the implementing acts adopted under this regulation, using, where appropriate, cost-effectiveness analysis, including an assessment of the burden on respondents and of the production costs.
References
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Commission Implementing Regulation(EU) No 226/2009
1.12.2009
-
OJ L 304 of 1.12 of the same day.
Amending act(s)
2.11.2011
- The Commission adopts Implementing Act(s).
Last updated: 22.07.2011



Summary 49:
Harmonisation of the visa regime for non-EU nationals crossing the external borders of the Schengen acquis and non-Schengen countries (Visa Regulation (EC) No 539/2001)
Harmonomically harmonising the visa requirements and the exemption from the visa requirement for nationals of non-European Union (EU) countries who are subject to a requirement to be in possession of a visa for the crossing of EU countries’ external borders.
SUMMARY OF:
Delegated Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2017/852 — harmonisation of visa requirements for non nationals of third countries crossing the EU’s external borders
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out the rules for the harmonisation and suspension of the requirement to carry a visa in order to cross EU countries' external borders and for persons who are exempt from that requirement.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to nationals of:
non-EU countries whose nationals do not hold a valid visa for crossing their external borders;
third countries which do not have a visa requirement; and
those whose nationals are exempt.
It does not apply to:
the United Kingdom (1), Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway (1);
the European Economic Area (EEA) countries (2); and
the countries which are not part of the EU.
Visa requirements
Nationals of the countries covered by the regulation must be issued a visa, unless they are resident in the EU or resident in another EU country.
they must have a valid for more than 90 days in any 180-day period.
EU countries may exempt certain categories of persons from the requirement if they consider that they are not a threat to public policy, security or public order, or public international law or custom.
Non-EU country nationals who are not nationals of an EU country may be exempt from a visa if they do not pose a risk to the public policy or internal security of the country in which they reside.
Exemption from visa requirement
The European Commission may grant a visa exemption to a specific category of persons if it considers that there is a risk that they will not be able to return to the EU within 90 days of being granted the exemption. The Commission must monitor the situation in the third countries concerned and inform the other EU countries and the European Parliament and the Council of the measures which they take pursuant to this regulation.
The Commission may decide to suspend the exemption if there is an increase in the risk of a decrease in cooperation on readmission as well as a substantial increase in risks to the internal security. It must notify one or several EU countries of the reasons for suspending the exemption, taking into account the specific circumstances notified by one or more EU countries or reported by the Commission and the principle of proportionality.
In addition, the Commission may adopt delegated acts on the application of the regulation. These may be adopted by the Council or by the EU countries. The regulation codifies and repeals Council Decision 1999/437/EC on the common policy on visas.
Visas are valid for 90 days, unless the EU country concerned decides to extend the period of validity of the exemption for a further 90 days. The duration of the extension may be extended for a maximum of 5 years. The period of extension may not exceed 5 years if the Member State concerned decides that it is not necessary to extend it for a period of more than 5 years or if there are grounds for concern that it would increase the risks of a serious breach of public order or public security. The Member State may suspend the extension for a limited period of time if, for example, there are serious breaches of public policy and public order. The suspension may also be suspended for a number of reasons, such as:
an increase in security risks;
a deterioration in public order and public security; or
a serious deterioration in human rights and fundamental freedoms.
A temporary suspension may be imposed on a person who is not a Member State resident or resident of another Member State who is a national of a third country. The temporary suspension must be notified to the Commission, the other Member States and the other countries concerned.
If the Member States consider that the suspension is necessary, they must inform the Commission of the reason for the suspension.
Special visa rules
In specific cases where special visa rules are warranted, it should be possible for Member States to apply special rules or impose it on them in accordance with public international rules or custom, in line with international agreements. These rules should be based on the principles of human rights, fundamental freedoms and the implications of regional coherence and reciprocity.
Authorisation of travel documents
The Member States must ensure that travel documents are issued by the competent authority of each Member State and that they comply with the rules laid down in the annexes to the implementing act. The competent authority must issue travel documents at the same time as Member States' experts, and their experts systematically have



Summary 50:
Eurojust — rules for the protection and free movement of operational personal data
Eurojust – rules for protection and the free movement thereof
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) 2018/1725 on Eurojust
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out Eurojust’s rules of procedure and rules of protection for the processing, storage and movement of the personal data of EU citizens.
KEY POINTS
The regulation sets out the rules for:
the protection of operational data processed by Eurojust;
the free movement and storage of operational operational data;
data protection in relation to criminal proceedings;
privacy of personal data.
EU citizens’ personal data are subject to the same level of protection as natural persons in the EU.
The European Data Protection Police (EDPS) is responsible for monitoring and ensuring the complete application of the data protection provisions of this regulation with regard to processing of operational Personal Data.
In addition, the EDPS has the right to consult Eurojust regarding submitted requests, to refer matters to Eurojust for the purpose of addressing concerns that have emerged regarding its processing of data, to make proposals for improving the protection of data subjects, and to order Eurojust to carry out specific operations. The EDPS is appointed by the European Commission for a term of office of 4 years. It is assisted by the College of Eurojust, which is composed of representatives of the EU countries. The College is also responsible for non-operational supervision of the organisation and provides it with strategic guidance.
An on-call coordination mechanism within Eurojust is set up to enable it to be available around the clock to intervene in urgent cases.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULTRY APPLY?
 
   
It has applied since 1 January 2019.
BACKGROUND
  The regulation repeals Decision 2002/187/JHA of the European Parliament and of the Council.
For more information, see:
European Anti-Fraud Office (Eurojust).
KEY TERMS
* Operational personal data: personal data that Eurojust has processed for the purposes of preventing, detecting and combating crime.
* Criminal proceedings: proceedings where a criminal offence is committed in a non-EU country.
MAIN DOCUMENT
  Е  ъ   бараланска гранка 
Council Regulation (EU, Euratom).
Successive amendments to the regulation have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 14.02.2021



Summary 51:
Fighting money laundering by means of criminal law (Directive (EU) 2017/1371)
Fighting crime through criminal law
SUMMARY OF:
Directive 2016/849/EU on combating money laundering
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DIRECTIVE?
It aims to combat money laundering and terrorist financing in the European Union (EU).
It sets out the minimum penalties for money laundering offences.
It does not apply to money laundering as regards property derived from criminal offences affecting the EU’s financial interests.
KEY POINTS
EU countries must ensure that all offences that are punishable by a term of imprisonment as set out in this directive are considered predicate offences. These include:
kidnapping, illegal restraint and hostage-taking;
robbery or theft;
smuggling;
tax crimes relating to direct and indirect taxes, as laid down in national law;
extortion;
forgery;
piracy;
insider trading and market manipulation;
cybercrime.
Penalties
The directive sets out minimum sentences for the following offences:
money laundering;
the aiding and abetting of a criminal organisation to commit a criminal offence;
laundering of proceeds of crime.
The following types of money laundering activities are also punishable:
the laundering of the proceeds of criminal activity (‘self-laundering’);
the facilitating of the laundering of proceeds from criminal activity.
In addition, EU countries must take the necessary measures to prevent the proceeds from being used for the financing of terrorism and to prevent them being used to finance terrorist activities.
the freezing and confiscation of instrumentalities* and proceeds* resulting from criminal activities. These measures must be carried out in accordance with the rules of the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAFTA).
The European Commission has adopted a report on the implementation of the directive.
FROM WHEN DOES THE DIRECTIVES APPLY?
   
 
Directives (EU, Euratom and the EU countries) have applied since 1 January 2017.
BACKGROUND
The EU is a signatory to the Council of Europe Convention on Laundering, Search, Seizure and Confiscation of the Proceeds from Crime and on the Financing of Terrorism.
For more information, see:
‘Money laundering’ on the European Commission's website.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Council Directive 2016/884/EU
1.1.2017
-
OJ L 94 of 1.1 January 2017
Amending act(s)
Entry in force
Deadlines for transposing into force and transposition within the Member State
Official journal
Directions (EU and Euratom)
01.2.2018
1 January 2019
1 February 2019
2.3.2020
3.3
2020
4.4.2021
5.5.2022
6.6.2023
7.7.2025
8.8.2027
9.9.2028
10.9
2031
2032
2033
2034
2035
2036
2037
2038
2039
2041
2042
2043
2044
2045
2046
2047
2048
2049
2051
2052
2053
2054
2055
2056
2057
2058
2059
2060
2061
2062
2063
2064
2065
2066
2067
2068
2069
2070
2071
2072
2073
2074
2075
2076
2078
2079
2080
2081
2082
2083
2084
2085
2086
2089
2090
2091
2092
2093
2094
2095
2096
2097
2098
2099
202000
202002
202003
202004
202005
202006
202007
202008
202009
202010
202011
202013
202014
202015
20202025.
2022.2030
2021.2024
2026.2026
2027.2029
2028.2031.2032.2034.2040
2030.3030.2035.2036.2039.2041.2033.2037.2038.2042.2043.2044.2045.2050.2056.2049.2051.2052.2053.2054.2055.2058.2061.2060.2057.2059.2062.2063.2065.



Summary 52:
Recovery plan for the conservation of Atlantic bluefin tuna (Recovery Plan for the European Union (EU) 2018-2021)
Recovery plans for the Conservation of Atlantic Bluefin Tunas (EU-2020)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2018/2021 on the application by the EU of the EU’s recovery plan
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It lays down the general rules for the application of the recovery plan adopted by the Union of the International Convention for the Convention on the Conservation and Management of Atlantic Tunas, known as the ICCAT Convention.
The EU is party to the convention.
KEY POINTS
The recovery plan takes into account the specificities of the different types of fishing gear and fishing techniques.
Each EU Member State must submit to the European Commission:
an annual fishing plan* for the catching vessels and traps fishing Bluefin tuna in the eastern Atlantic and the Mediterranean;
a yearly fishing capacity management plan ensuring that the Member State's fishing capacity is commensurate with its allocated quota.
Every year, each Member State submits to the Commission a list of the fishing vessels, traps and fishing vessels that may fish for, retain on board, tranship, transport, or land Bluefin Tuna. The list must be submitted not later than 30 days before the start of the season applicable to each such vessel.
An individual quota is allocated to each fishing vessel over 24 metres. The number of vessels and of fishing vessels flying the flag of a Member State may be submitted no later than 31 January each year.
the number of traps registered in an EU country and the number of boats registered in the EU may be determined in accordance with the Treaty on the Functioning of the Union (TFEU).
The Member State with a quota must notify the Commission at least 3 days before any modification to the plan or the individual quotas.
Member States may decide to use a higher number of fish than their quota if they can demonstrate that their fishing capacity does not allow the use of its full quota. The Commission must inform the Member States of the reasons for this decision.
In addition, Member States must submit a report every 3 years on the implementation of the conservation plan. The report must include:
a description of the fish caught;
the species of fish caught and the methods used to capture and kill the fish;
measures taken by Member States to reduce the impact of the fishery on the marine environment;
an estimate of the annual fishing capacity of the vessels and the fishing fleet in the area covered by the Convention;
details of the number and type of fish that may be caught in the catch and landing obligation for the year 2018 and 2019.
A report must be prepared every 5 years by the Commission and submitted to the Council and the European Parliament, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee on Fisheries and Aquaculture. It must also include a summary of the results of the monitoring and evaluation carried out in the previous 3 years.
Report
Each Member State is required to submit an annual report to the EU Parliament and the Council every 4 years on its implementation of its recovery plan. This report must cover:
the total number of bluefin fish caught, caught and landed;
fishing vessels registered in Member States;
catch and landing obligations for fishing vessels;
transhipment and transhipment of fish on board a fishing vessel to another fishing vessel;
harvesting of fish in farms or traps;
transfer and caging operations of live bluefin.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
The regulation has applied since 1 January 2018.
BACKGROUND
The Convention for Conservation and Migratory Species of Wild Fishes (ICCAT) has been amended several times.
For more information, see:
The International Convention of the Convention for:
Fishing and Fisheries (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Bluefin: a species of tuna that is the largest fish in the world.
* Catching vessel: any fishing vessel with a maximum length of 24 metres or more.
Traps: any type of fishing device used to catch fish.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Commission Delegated Regulation (EU), Euratom, of 21 December 2018 on the adoption by the European Community of a recovery plan pursuant to Article 3.3.2018 of the Regulation on the conservation, management and management of Atlantic Tuna (OJ L 347, 21.12.2018, pp. 1-24)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EC) No 302/2009 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
Commission Implementing Decision (EUEU) No 544/2014 of 22 December 2014 on the interpretation and application of Council Regulation (Euratom) No 1380/2013 of 22 November 2013 on multiannual



Summary 53:
Shipbuilding injurious pricing: combating the sale of ships below their normal value to non-market-economy countries (IPI Code)
Shipbuilding injurious pricing
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) 2015/755 — combating injurious prices
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It codifies and repeals Regulation (EC) No 182/2011, which had to become law in the EU countries by 31 December 2011.
It aims to protect the EU industry against ship-purchase transactions where the price of a ship is below its normal value.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to:
ships built in non-EU countries;
ships imported into the EU and exported to the EU;
shipbuilding contracts concluded under the 1994 Anti-Dumping Agreement (ADA);
contracts for the construction of ships between contracting parties to the ADA.
Injunctive pricing
A builder of a vessel is liable for an injurious price charge if:
the normal value of the vessel is below the normal value;
the sale of the ship to a buyer other than the buyer of the country in which the vessel originates causes injury.
The builder must pay the charge within 5 years from the date of the sale.
If the builder does not pay within the applicable time limit, the shipbuilder may be subject to an investigation by the competent authorities of the contracting party.
Where appropriate, an investigation may also be initiated upon a written complaint by the authorities of a contracting party, in accordance with the conditions of the Shipbuilding agreement and under the conditions set out in Annex III to the agreement.
Procedure
An investigation may be initiated if the builder fails to comply with the regulation’s requirements.
A court decision may be taken on the application of the regulation.
Implementation
The Commission must take all necessary steps to ascertain, in the large conglomerates and holdings of third countries, the validity of accounting charges when the cost price structure needs to be estimated. The Commission may also take countermeasures if it considers that a shipbuilder has not paid the injurious charge within the time limit.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
  
It entered into force on 31 December 2015.
BACKGROUND
The EU has adopted a number of measures to combat the practice of shipping in the European Union (EU).
For more information, see:
‘Shipbuilding Injurious Pricing Code’ on the European Commission's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Shipbuilding: any vessel built in a non-European Economic Area (EEA).
* Contracting party: any person or company that is legally or operationally in a position to exercise restraint or direction over the buyer, which is presumed at a 25 % interest.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Commission Implementing Regulation (EU)* No 552/2015
31.12.2015
-
OJ L 127 of 31.12-
Amending act(s).
last update 30.02.2016



Summary 54:
Cableway safety: cableway installations
Cabling safety: cables and safety components
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 1025/2012 on cableway safety
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to harmonise the rules on the design, construction and operation of cableways in the European Union (EU).
It sets out the conditions for the placing on the EU market of cableway systems, subsystems and safety parts.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies in its entirety to new installations, including cable-operated lifts, whether vertical or inclined, permanently serving specific levels of buildings and constructions and not operating between cableway stations. It does not apply to installations where the users or carriers are waterborne.
It does not cover:
cable-operated ferries;
cables used for the transport of goods and passengers;
substances imported into the EU from non-EU countries;
safety components imported from outside the EU.
Importers must ensure that:
they have carried out the necessary conformity assessment* to ensure that their products comply with the regulation’s requirements;
they provide the competent national authorities with the necessary documentation;
the competent authorities have been informed of the conformity assessment results;
their products are available for inspection by the competent authorities.
Manufacturers must indicate on their products whether they are new subsystems or safety components.
EU countries must ensure the CE marking and documentation of their products is available to EU countries’ competent authorities for inspection.
in addition, EU countries must notify the European Commission of the names and addresses of any economic operators who have supplied them with a subsystem or safety component or to whom they have supplied a subsystem.
The CE marking, indicating the conformity of a cableway system or a safety component, is the visible consequence of a whole process comprising conformity assessment in a broad sense.
Safety analysis
The safety analysis must take into account the surrounding conditions, on the quality of the industrial goods supplied and on the way in which they are assembled, installed on-site and monitored during operation. It must also take account of the constraints linked to the operation of the installations, albeit not in such a way as to jeopardise the principle of free movement of goods for subsystems* or the safety of the cableway installation themselves.
Exclusions from the scope of the regulation
Cableways are subject to specific EU legislation and should not be excluded from its scope. However, the regulation does not extend to:
the installation of cables, cables and cables of any kind, including cables that are installed on the ground or in the air;
installations that are not intended for the use of ferries or for the transportation of goods or passengers, except for those that are intended for use by waterborne means of transport, such as waterborne ferries.
Scope and scope of authorisations
This regulation applies to the following:
new installations;
existing installations, installations requiring a new authorisation and modifications of installations requiring new authorisations;
systems and components which are new to the Union market when they are placed on it; that is to say, they are either new or second-hand, imported from a third country.
In addition, it covers:
subsystems that are in conformity with harmonised standards that are adopted in accordance with Directive 2000/9/EC for the purpose of expressing detailed technical specifications of those requirements, especially with regard to the design and construction of installations; and
safety systems and components that comply with those standards.
Evaluation of conformity assessment procedures
The European Commission must carry out a conformity assessment of the products covered by the regulation.
If a product is found to be in breach of the requirements of this regulation, it must inform the competent authority of the EU country concerned. The competent authority must then inform the manufacturer of the reasons for the non-conformity of the product and issue a certificate of conformity. If the manufacturer considers that the product is not in conformity, it may issue a recall. The manufacturer must also inform the European Parliament and the Council of the European Economic and Social Committee of the measures taken to remedy the situation and inform the Commission of its decision to recall the product.
National authorities must inform EU countries of any non-compliance with this regulation and inform them of the remedies available to them.
Ensuring legal certainty
The Commission must:
ensure that the cableways covered by this regulation are not liable to endanger the health or safety of persons or property when properly installed, maintained and operated according to their intended purpose;
establish a system of authorisation for the installation, installation and maintenance of cables and cableways;
apply the rules laid down in this regulation to all cableways, installations and safety systems which are intended to be installed, installed or maintained according to the intended purpose.
Where an installation or safety system does not conform to the requirements set out in the regulation,



Summary 55:
Accessibility of products and services for persons with disabilities
Assessment of the accessibility of products, services and e-commerce services for people with disabilities (Directive (EU) 2017/1564)
Assessing the accessibility requirements for products, service providers and ecommerce websites for the transport sector
SUMMARY OF:
Directive 2017/1664 on the accessibility directive for the provision of goods and services to persons with disability
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DIRECTIVE?
It aims to improve the accessibility* of products* and services* for persons who have long-term physical, mental, intellectual or sensory impairments.
The directive applies to:
products and services offered by public sector bodies providing transport services, including urban and suburban transport services and regional transport services;
online and mobile device-based services including mobile applications developed or made available by operators of passenger transport services within the scope of this directive or on their behalf;
electronic ticketing services, electronic tickets and interactive self-service terminals.
It does not apply to audiovisual media services.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The legislation applies to all products or services offered in the European Union (EU). It does not cover, on an individual basis, single components with specific functions, such as a mainboard or a memory chip, that are used or that might be used in such a system.
Products and services covered by the directive include:
vehicles, aircrafts, ships, ships or rolling stock;
aircrafts;
motor vehicles, ships and rolling stock*;
aeronautomotive vehicles;
baggregional transport;
special volumes like comics, children’s books, art books and art books;
books and audio-visual media;
appliances and equipment;
mobile devices;
e-commerce websites;
services for the sale and sale of goods;
transport services for the supply of goods.
Accessibility requirements apply to all modes of operations of products.
Public sector bodies must ensure that their websites and mobile applications comply with the directive.
E-commerce sites must comply with this directive, as well as with the requirements of Regulation (EC) No 552/2014 on ecommerce.
Transport services must also comply with these requirements.
In addition, the directive sets out the obligations of the public sector body providing public transport services to ensure that:
their websites are accessible;
their mobile applications are accessible, and
their e-ticketing services are accessible and interactive;
the electronic ticketing service is accessible.
EU countries must also:
ensure that e-ticketing services and electronic tickets are accessible to persons who are visually impaired;
make sure that the information displayed on these services is clearly visible and understandable to users with disabilities;
provide users with the necessary assistance to enable them to use their assistive technologies;
set out the conditions for the use of these services and ensure that they are accessible in the event of an emergency.
Exceptions
Certain elements of transport services may not be covered by this directive when provided outside the territory of the EU, even where the service has been directed towards the EU market. These include the following:
the carriage of goods by road or rail;
public transport services provided by public transport bodies;
vehicle-based transport services which are provided by private transport companies;
passenger transport services that are provided in the EU;
certain types of aircrafts and ships which are not part of those vehicles or aircrafts.
Amendments to the directive
Amending Directive (EU, Euratom) 2018/852 amends Directive 2017/1764 to take account of the fact that the directive has been amended several times and that it has not yet been incorporated into national law. This means that, as of 1 January 2019, it has to become law in all EU countries by 1 January 2020.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS DIRECTIVE APPLY?
 
   
It has applied since 1 January 2017.
BACKGROUND
The accessibility directive was adopted by the European Parliament and the Council on behalf of the European Economic and Social Committee (Euratom).
For more information, see:
‘Accessibility Directive for Persons with Disabilities’ on the European Commission's website.
MAIN DOCUMENT
  i.e. ‘Accessible Products and Services for Persons With Disabilities Directive’ (OJ L 127, 1.2.2017, pp. 1-40)
Successive amendments to Directive 2017 / 1664 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 14.02.2021



Summary 56:
Supply chain due diligence obligations of EU importers of minerals and metals from conflict-affected and high-risk areas (OECD Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 552/2013 on supply chain due-diligence obligations of Union importers for minerals or metals containing or consisting of tin, tantalum, tungsten or gold
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to ensure that the EU’s raw materials supply chain is transparent and secure.
It sets out the obligations of all importers, including the EU smelters and refiners which import and process minerals and concentrates thereof.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to all minerals, metals and copper imported into the EU. It does not apply to:
mineral-rich countries such as the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and its neighbours in Central Africa;
conflict-affected countries in the Horn of Africa and the Central African Republic (CAR);
war zones;
non-EU countries whose annual import volume of each of these minerals and copper is below the volume thresholds set out in the regulation.
EU importers must:
ensure that their supply chain checks are carried out by independent third-party auditors;
keep a record of the results of these checks;
ensures that they report to the European Commission and the European Parliament and to the Council of the European Union (EU).
Imporporters must ensure that:
their annual import volumes of each mineral or metal concerned do not exceed the thresholds listed in the annexes to the regulation;
they report regularly to the Commission on the implementation of the regulation, including:
the number of minerals they have imported;
the volume of copper they have exported;
their number of tonnes of tin and tantalum imported.
The Commission must also:
report to the EU Parliament and the Council every 3 years on the measures taken to ensure the transparency of the supply chain;
identify the companies and individuals responsible for the supply of minerals;
draw up a list of the companies that have complied with its requirements.
In addition, the Commission must publish an annual report on the compliance of the EU's importers with this regulation. It must also publish a report every 5 years on how the regulation is being implemented.
Importer obligations
The EU must ensure:
that:
all minerals imported in the EU fall within the scope of this regulation and are subject to its requirements;
that the minerals are imported under the Combined Nomenclature Code (CNC Code);
that they are imported in quantities that are below the thresholds set in Annex I to this regulation; and
that there is no excess of any of these metals in the Union.
To ensure the proper functioning of the Union system while guaranteeing that the vast majority of the total volumes imported are covered by its requirements, this regulation should not apply in situations where the EU import volumes are below:
volume thresholds set at a level that ensures that the majority, but no less than 95 %, of the minerals imported by the EU are covered;
total volume thresholds are set at levels that ensure that no excess metals are added to the total volume of the metals imported. In addition, EU countries must establish national authorities responsible for monitoring the compliance with the CNC Code.
Due diligence schemes
EU countries must set up due diligence schemes for the import of minerals from conflict affected and high risk areas. These schemes must be effective and transparent. They must be:
based on the best available scientific and technical information available;
designed to protect the environment, human rights and the security of human beings;
coordinated with the United Nations and the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development;
contributing to the prevention of armed conflict and the financing of armed groups and security forces in resource-rich areas;
consistent with the principles of due diligence.
If an importer fails to comply with its obligations, it must inform the Commission, the EU countries and the World Trade Organization (WTO) of the reasons for the failure to comply.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULATIONS APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 January 2013.
BACKGROUND
 
  The EU has adopted a number of measures to improve transparency throughout its supply chain. These include:
a ban on the export of certain minerals to the DRC and the CAR;
an obligation on EU countries’ competent authorities to monitor and report on supply-chain due diligence;
a requirement on the Commission to establish a register of companies that comply with the requirements of the Regulation.
For more information, see:
Mineral and metals (European Commission).
* KEY TERMS
* Conflict-affected areas: areas where armed groups or security forces exploit minerals



Summary 57:
Customs legislation — modernisation of the customs control system
Customs Legislation — modernising the customs controls system
SUMMARY OF:
Delegated acts on customs legislation
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DECISION?
It sets out the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by EU countries of the Commission’s exercise of implementing powers.
It repeals Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules for the application of certain provisions of customs legislation to trade in EU goods between parts of the EU.
KEY POINTS
EU countries must apply the customs legislation as laid down in the implementing acts of the Code of European Union (COPE).
The Commission must adopt implementing acts relating to:
the harmonised application of customs controls, including the exchange of risk information and analysis, common risk criteria and standards, control measures and priority control areas;
the determination of the tariff classification of goods;
measures temporarily prohibiting the use of comprehensive guarantees.
In addition, the Commission must ensure that the information provided by economic operators is shared, taking account of the relevant data-protection provisions, between customs authorities and with other agencies involved in that control.
The European Commission must also ensure that EU countries’ experts and the business community are consulted in a transparent manner, and well in advance, when drawing up delegated acts.
Implementing acts
The implementing acts cover:
measures to ensure uniform application of EU customs controls;
common risk management framework and an electronic system for its implementation;
control measures
priority control areas
rules on the import and export of certain goods
measures and measures temporarily prohibiting comprehensive guarantees
rules concerning the release for free release of debt
rules for the release of certain types of goods.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS DECISION APPLY?
The decision has applied since 31 December 2011.
BACKGROUND
   
For more information, see:
‘Customs and trade’ on the European Commission's website.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Commission Delegated Act
1.12.2011
-
OJ L 183 of 31.12-
Amending act(s)
2.11.2012
- The Commission adopts implementing acts
3.10.2014
-   The Commission repeals Implementing Act (EU).
RELATED ACTS
Commission Implementing Decision No 70/2008/EC of 15 January 2008 on a paperless environment for customs and trade (Official Journal L 70 of 15.1.2008)
Commission Decision No 12/2013/EU of 31 December 2013 on the implementation of implementing acts for the modernisation and simplification of the code of customs and on the harmonisation of procedures for the control of goods brought into or taken out of the Union and repealing Implementing Directive 2006/112/EC.
Last updated: 27.02.2014



Summary 58:
Enforcement of intellectual property rights by customs authorities: destruction of goods suspected of infringing copyright and patent law (EU rules on small consignments of goods) (Regulation (EC) No 1383/2003)
Enforcement OF INFROM WHEN DOES THE REGULATION APPLY?
It has applied since 1 January 2004.
It repeals and repeals Regulation (EC, No 1382/2003).
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to goods suspected to infringe intellectual property (IP) rights. It does not apply to:
goods imported into the EU from non-EU countries;
good goods imported from outside the EU.
The goods concerned are liable to customs supervision or customs control, and to carry out adequate controls on such goods with a view to preventing operations in breach of the EU’s intellectual property laws.
Implementing Regulation (EU) 2019/852 amends Regulation (EEC) 2017/853 to extend the scope of the regulation to cover goods that are to be destroyed. It also introduces the possibility for goods which are to have been destroyed to be moved, under customs supervision, between different places within the customs territory of the Union.
In addition, the regulation introduces a procedure allowing the destruction of certain goods without there being any obligation to initiate proceedings to establish whether an intellectual property right has been infringed.
Customs authorities are responsible for:
the destruction of infringing goods;
the control of infringements;
immunity from liability of the infringer or other persons that might be considered liable under the legislation of the Member State where the goods were found.
the seizure of the goods and the confiscation of the infringing goods.
Objectives of the customs authorities
The purpose of the procedure is to ensure that the goods are destroyed and that they are destroyed in accordance with the rules laid down in the regulation.
This regulation establishes standard forms to be used by the customs authority to identify infringements. These forms include:
a list of the names and addresses of the persons responsible for infringing the rights of the right-holder;
a description of the type of goods involved;
details of the method of transport and the mode or means of transport;
information on the nature of the infringement;
an explanation of the risk of diversion of such goods onto the market of the European Union (EU).
The procedure for destruction of these goods is governed by the national customs authorities’ national legislation. However, the European Commission may amend the regulation in respect of amending the non-essential elements of the definition of ‘small consignment’, such as the specific quantities set out in that definition.
Amendments to the regulation
The annexes to this regulation have been amended several times. The most recent amendment was adopted by the European Parliament and the Council in December 2018. The amendments to the annexes are as follows:
Annexes to the Regulation on the destruction procedure of goods are annexed to the original text. These annexes cover:
measures to be taken in the event of infringement of the laws of an EU Member State;
measures for the seizure of goods that have been found to be infringed;
examples of measures to be adopted to prevent the diversion of infringed goods on the market;
procedures for the destruction, confiscation, seizure and seizure of certain types of goods. The annexes also cover the following:
exceptions to the prohibition of the importation of certain medicines, including medicines that are manufactured by a person duly authorised to manufacture a certain quantity of goods, in excess of the quantities agreed between that person and the holder of the rights.
Exemptions from the prohibition on the import of medicines:
medicines which are manufactured for the first time in the European Economic Area (EEA) without the authorisation of that person;
medical devices manufactured by an authorised person, but placed on the EU market without his or her consent;
mixtures of medicines which have been manufactured in the EU without his/her consent, and which have not been manufactured as genuine goods and are manufactured in such quantities that they cannot be manufactured as such;
means of transport of medicines that have not yet been manufactured and which are only a portion of a complete journey beginning and terminating beyond the EU, with or without transhipment, warehousing, breaking bulk, or changes in the mode of transport.
References
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Regulation(EU) No 752/2004
1.1.2004
-
OJ L 127, 1.2.2004, pp. 1-24
Amending act(s) No 853/2003
Entry in force
Deadlines for transshipment in the member states
Official journal
Commission Implementing Regulations (EU, Euratom) 2018/854 and 2019/1352
Reg



Summary 59:
Customs 2020 programme
Customs programme
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) 2021/241 establishing a new programme, the Customs programme
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes a multiannual EU programme for cooperation in the field of customs.
It sets up a customs programme for the period 2021-2023.
KEY POINTS
The programme covers customs cooperation, but also provides support for the wider mission of customs authorities, as provided for in Article 3 of the European Parliament and of the Council’s Treaty on the Functioning of the Union (TFEU).
It aims to:
improve the efficiency of customs cooperation;
ensure that customs authorities have the necessary resources to carry out their mission;
contribute to the implementation of the customs union;
support the development of information and communication technology (ICT) systems;
facilitate the exchange of information between customs authorities and the private sector;
provide technical support to customs authorities.
The regulation sets out the objectives of the programme, including:
improving customs cooperation and the capacity-building of customs and customs control equipment;
encouraging customs cooperation with non-EU countries;
promoting customs cooperation between EU countries and developing customs cooperation within the EU;
strengthening customs cooperation at EU level;
developing customs cooperation among EU countries.
Implementing the programme
The European Commission is responsible for implementing the programme. It is assisted by the European External Action Service (OLAF) and the European Border and Coast Guard.
EU countries are invited to take part in the programme by providing technical support. The programme is open to the participation of EU countries covered by the EU Neighbourhood policy. The European Commission also invites the participation, if certain conditions are fulfilled, of acceding countries, candidate countries, potential candidates for EU membership, potential candidate countries and countries covered under the European Neighbouring Policy.
In addition, the programme is also open to participation of the following countries:
the United Kingdom (1), the United States (2), the European Economic Area (EEA) (3), the Republic of Ireland (4), the Czech Republic (5), Greece (6), Hungary (7), Croatia (8) and Romania (9).
The EU countries are also invited to participate in the Programme for the internal market, competitiveness of enterprises, including small and medium-sized enterprises, the area of plants, animals, food and feed, and European statistics (Single Market Programme), the Recovery and Resilience Facility (5) and Technical Support Instrument (TSIF).
Implementation
The Programme is implemented by the Commission. It covers the period from 1 January 2021 to 31 December 2023. The Commission is assisted in its implementation by the OLAF, the European Customs and Border Guard Agency (ECBAA) and Europol.
A monitoring and evaluation framework is in place to monitor the implementation and the completion of the Programme. The interim and final evaluations, which should be performed no later than 4 years after the start of the implementation, respectively, should contribute to the efficient decision-making process concerning cooperation in customs under the next multiannually financial frameworks.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
The Regulation has applied since 20 January 2021.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Commission Implementing Regulation (EU, Euratom).
-
OJ L 136 of 20.3.2021
RELATED ACTS
Commission Regulation (EC) No 952/2013 of 21 December 2013 establishing the European Union Customs programme (‘the Programme’) (OJ C 202 of 21.12.2013, pp. 1-16)
Commission Decision No 696/2013/EU of 20 November 2013 establishing a European Union customs programme (the Programme) and repealing Regulation (Euratom) No 697/2012 (O J L 136, 21.11.2013).
Commission Delegated Regulation of 21 November 2013 laying down the rules for the operation of the EU Customs programme and repealing Council Decision No 596/2012.
last update 04.02.2022



Summary 60:
European Social Fund Plus (ESF+) — 20 principles of the Pillar of the European Pillar of Social Rights and Social Innovation (PSTS)
European social fund Plus (ESSF+)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) 2021/1060 establishing the European Social Fund+
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes the framework for the implementation of the EU’s Pillar of social rights and social innovation (PSS) and the ESF+.
It sets out the 20 principles that guide the actions under the European social fund.
KEY POINTS
The ESF+ aims to:
promote equal opportunities and access to the labour market;
fair working conditions;
social protection and inclusion;
contribute to the modernisation of social protection systems with a particular focus on children and disadvantaged groups and with a view to promoting the accessibility of such systems, including for persons with disabilities.
It also aims to contribute to the eradication of poverty and social exclusion.
The 20 principles are structured in three categories:
equal opportunities and equal access to labour markets;
equal access to and quality of education and training to aid reintegration into education systems, promote social inclusion, facilitate access to healthcare for vulnerable persons and contribute to eradicating poverty;
equality of working conditions and social protection to improve the quality of life of workers and workers’ families.
In addition, it aims to promote:
the facilitation of reskilling and upskilling and employability, career transitions, geographic and sectoral mobility and supporting in particular low-skilled persons, people with disabilities and poorly qualified adults;
the promotion of self-employment and the social economy.
EU countries’ responsibilities
The European Commission may reimburse EU countries using simplified cost options, including lump sums.
FROM WHEN DOES THE LEGULATION APPLY?
The regulation has applied since 1 January 2021.
BACKGROUND
   
The ESSF+ is one of the main instruments of the Social Fund for the European Union (EU). It is the main instrument for the financing of the social and economic policies and actions of the Union.
For more information, see:
‘ESF Plus’ on the European Commission's website.
MAIN DOCUMENTS
Council Resolution of 21 December 2018 on the establishment of the framework to identify national reform priorities and monitor their implementation.
Council Recommendation of 15 March 2018 on a European Framework for Quality and Effective Apprenticeships, lifelong guidance, skills anticipation in close cooperation with industry, up-to-date training materials and delivery methods, forecasting and graduate tracking, training of educators, validation of learning outcomes and recognition of qualifications and industry-based certifications.
Successive amendments to the Regulation have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 20.02.2021



Summary 61:
European Solidarity Corps Portal for volunteering in humanitarian aid and humanitarian aid in third countries (European Union (EU) 2021/817)
European Union Volunteering Portal for Volunteering and Humanitarian Aid in Third Countries
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 1288/2013 — European Solidarity Corporations
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes a single entry point for solidarity activities throughout the EU and beyond.
It aims to promote solidarity with victims of crises and disasters in non-EU countries and to raise both the awareness and the visibility of humanitarian aid, and volunteering in general, as a lifelong activity among EU citizens.
KEY POINTS
The purpose of the regulation is to encourage young people to take part in solidarity activities.
Volunteers can contribute to strengthening the EU’s capacity to provide needs-based and principled humanitarian aid. They can also contribute to enhancing the effectiveness of the humanitarian sector provided that they are adequately selected, trained and prepared for deployment so as to ensure that they have the necessary skills and competences to help people in need in the most effective way and that they can count on sufficient on-site support and supervision.
Participants in volunteering (‘volunteers’) can be young people from all over the EU.
Organisations are responsible for organising the volunteering activities. In a host capacity, hosting organisations should carry out activities in relation to receiving participants, including organising activities and providing guidance and support to participants during the solidarity activity, as appropriate.
The European Union countries should ensure that hosting organisations have the capacity to integrate the volunteering within the local context and to facilitate volunteers’ interaction with local humanitarian actors, the hosting community and civil society.
EU countries must ensure that participating organisations are able to fully cooperate with each other in the organisation of the solidarity activities and with the hosting organisations in the host countries.
In addition, EU countries must cooperate with the United Nations (UN) and the European Commission in the field of humanitarian aid, in particular with regard to the implementation of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, as well as with other relevant EU policies.
FROM WHEN DOES THE REGULE APPLANTS APPLY?
The regulation has applied since 1 July 2013.
BACKGROUND
   
The EU has adopted a number of measures to encourage volunteering, including:
the creation of the European Union Youth Strategy 2019-2027 and the Erasmus+ programme;
the European Structural and Investment Funds and the EU programmes relating to migration, security, justice and citizenship, health and culture.
For more information, see:
‘Solidarity’ and ‘Humanitarian Aid’ on the European Agency for Fundamental Rights’ website.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Council Regulation (EU), Euratom
1.7.2013
-
OJ L 127 of 1.7, 2013
Amending act(s)
Date of expiry
1 July 2013
- The European Union will apply the regulation from 1 July 2021.
RELATED ACTS
 
Regulations (EC) No 552/2014 and (EC), No 556/2014 of the General Assembly and of the Council of 21 May 2014 on the application of the Treaty on European Union to the European Voluntary Service and on the participation of young people in cross-border volunteering and volunteering that continues to be supported under the European Social Fund (Official Journal L 183 of 21.5.2014).
Regulating (EU).EU.2019/2027 of the Commission on the organisation and coordination of European Union youth programmes and of European social funds for the period 2019–2027.
Directive 2014/34/EU of the Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions establishing a European Youth and Social Fund and repealing Council Regulation (EC, No 652/2013).
Commission Implementing Regulation (Euratom) 2019/2026 of 22 May 2019 on the coordination of the EU Youth and European Social Funds for the duration of the period 2018–2026.
Commission Regulation (ESF) 2019-2020 of 23 May 2019 establishing an Interoperability Framework for European Youth programmes and establishing an EU Youth Strategy.
Last updated: 22.07.2019



Summary 62:
EU Structural and Investment Funds (ESF)
EU Structual and Investment Fund (ESGF)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) 2018/1046 establishing the European Social Fund Plus
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes the EGF, a flexible and special instrument outside the budgetary ceilings of the EU’s multiannual financial framework for 2021-2027.
It aims to provide assistance to workers who lose their jobs in large-scale restructuring events and to help them to find other jobs as quickly as possible.
KEY POINTS
The EGF is one of the main instruments of the European Pillar of Social Rights (PSR). It is designed to offer assistance in an anticipatory manner and in a reactive manner in the case of major restructuring events.
The main EU instruments to assist affected workers are the European social fund, which is established by a Regulation of the Parliament and of the Council and is designed as a proactive fund, and the European Investment Bank (EIB), which is designed for a reactive fund.
In addition, the European Monitoring Centre on Change (EMCC) assists the Commission and the Member States with qualitative and quantitative analyses in order to help in assessing trends of globalisation, technological change and climate change, as well as in the assessment of the impact of restructuring events on the labour market.
Eligibility criteria
Applicants must meet certain criteria, such as:
they must be nationals of an EU Member State,
they have to be employed in a Member State that is a member of the NACEA Member State
they belong to an EU country with a population of over 500,000
they are employed in an employer-owned business
they do not work in a non-EU Member State.
They must have a minimum annual income of €10,000 or €20,000 in the Member State concerned
they meet certain conditions, i.e. they must not have been unemployed for more than 6 months
they should not have lost their job in the previous 6 months.
Beneficiaries must be able to prove that they have the necessary skills and knowledge to find a job
they can demonstrate that they will not be affected by a restructuring event
they will not lose their job because of a lack of qualifications
they may not be unemployed because they do not have the skills to find another job.
EU Member States must ensure that:
the EGF does not discriminate between men and women
it is open to applicants from all Member States
it does not apply to applicants belonging to the same Member State and to applicants of the same gender.
Member States must inform the European Commission of the number of applications they have received and the reasons for the submission of the applications.
If the Commission considers that an application has not been received, it must inform Member States of the reasons why and inform the Commission.
An application must be submitted to the Commission within 6 months of receipt of the application. Member States may refuse to accept an application if they consider that the applicant does not meet the eligibility criteria.
Applications must be accompanied by:
a description of the specific needs of the applicant;
a summary of the measures to be taken to support the applicant and a description of how the measures will be implemented;
an estimate of the amount of the total amount of expenditure to be spent;
the number of Member States that will be involved in implementing the measures;
information on the number and duration of the expenditure;
details of the beneficiaries.
A report must be prepared by the Commission every 3 years on the implementation of these measures. The Commission must submit a report to the European Parliament and the Council on the results of the evaluation of the actions taken by Member States. The report must also include a report on the effectiveness of the implementation measures taken.
Report
The Commission must present to the Council, the Parliament, the EEC and the Economic and Social Committee a report by the end of each year on the use of the ESF+ and the EIGF. It must also present a report in the form of a communication to the public on the progress made.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
The regulation entered into force on 1 January 2019.
BACKGROUND
   
For more information, see:
European Social Fund plus (European Commission).
MAIN DOCUMENT
 
  бараланска гракта 
Commission Implementing Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 1046/2018 of 2 May 2018 laying down the rules for the establishment of a European Structural Fund (EGF) (OJ L 183, 1.5.2018, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to the Regulation have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 27.02.2021



Summary 63:
Ensuring transparency in EU policy-making and policy implementation — transparency register for interest representation (2014 agreement between the European Parliament and the European Commission)
Enensuring transparency and ethical interest representation at EU level — Transparency register for interested persons
SUMMARY OF:
Decision (EU) 2017/852 — conclusion of the 2014 agreement on cooperation between the EU institutions, bodies, offices and agencies in the field of interest representation
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE AGREEMENT AND THE DECISION?
The agreement establishes a joint framework for cooperation between EU institutions and bodies, bodies and agencies to encourage the registration of interest representatives* in the EU’s transparency register.
The decision concludes the agreement on behalf of the European Union (EU).
KEY POINTS
Objectives
The aim of the agreement is to:
ensure that the transparency register is open to all interested persons who wish to participate in the formulation or implementation of EU policy or legislation;
promote transparency in the decision-making processes of the signatory institutions or other EU institutions;
encourage the participation of interested persons in the policy formulation, implementation or formulation of EU legislation.
Scope
This agreement covers activities carried out by interest representatives with the objective of influencing the formulation of policy or implementing legislation or the decision making processes of EU institutions or bodies. It does not cover:
making submissions to direct and specific requests from any of the institutions, their representatives or staff for factual information, data or expertise;
activities carried out in a strictly personal capacity and not in association with others;
spontaneous meetings, meetings of a purely private or social character and meetings taking place in the context of an administrative procedure established by the TEU or TFEU or legal acts of the EU.
Exemptions from the agreement
Applicants to the register must:
be able to demonstrate that they carry out covered activities and observe the code of conduct set out in Annex I (‘code of conduct’);
cooperate sincerely and constructively in accordance with the procedures laid down in Annex III.
Conditions and complementary transparency measures
The EU institutions agree to implement the coordinated approach with regard to the activities covered by this agreement and to set out those covered activities that they decide to make conditional upon registration in the register. They must also publish on their website the conditions and complementary measures that they put in place to encourage registration, such as dedicated mailing lists, the recommendation that certain decision-makers meet only registered interest representatives, or the publication of information on meetings between certain decision makers and interest representatives.
In the exercise of their respective powers of internal organisation, the signatories institutions delegate to the secretariat and the management board of the register the power to act on their behalf for the adoption of individual decisions concerning applicants and registrants.
They must ensure that these decisions are consistent with the agreement and that they reinforce the objectives of this agreement, namely, to set a high standard of transparent and ethical interests representation at Union level.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
   
The 2014 agreement entered into force on 1 July 2017.
BACKGROUND
The European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions have adopted a number of measures to encourage interest representation, including:
the establishment of the Transparency Register for organisations and self-employed individuals engaged in EU public policymaking and implementation;
the creation of a dedicated mailing list to facilitate the exchange of information between the institutions and the individuals involved in interest representation.
For more information, see:
EU transparency register (European Parliament and Council of Europe).
MAIN DOCUMENTS
Council Decision (EU, Euratom, European Council, European Commission and European Parliament of 16 April 2017 on the conclusion of an Agreement on Cooperation between the Member States, the Secretaries-General of the Signatory Institutions and the Organisations of the Union in the Field of Interest Representation (2014 Agreement) (OJ L 127, 17.4.2017, pp. 1-14)
Council decision (EU), Euratom and European Economic, Social and Committee of 3 July 2017 on conclusion of a Joint Agreement on Transparency and Ethics in the fields of Interest representation (Oj L 127 of 17.3.2017) (Official Journal L 127)
last update 14.02.2019



Summary 64:
Budgetary discipline and budgetary cooperation between the European institutions
Budapest Agreement 2021-2027 — budgetary discipline and cooperation
SUMMARY OF:
Agreement on budgetary discipline
Decision (EU) 2021/2027 on the signing, on behalf of the European Parliament and of the Council, and provisional application of the Budgetary discipline agreement between the Council and the European Commission on budgetary matters
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE AGREEMENT AND THE DECISION?
The agreement aims to implement budgetary discipline, to improve the functioning of the annual budgetary procedure and to ensure sound financial management, and to implement cooperation and establish a roadmap towards the introduction of new own resources that are sufficient to cover the repayment of the EURI (European Union Recovery Instrument).
The decision approves the conclusion of the agreement.
KEY POINTS
Scope
This agreement applies to the multiannual financial framework (MFF) 2021–2027. It covers the period from 1 January 2021 to 31 December 2027. The annexes to this agreement form an integral part of the MFF.
It covers:
the general budget of the EU;
the financial framework for the European Union (EU);
the European Union Strategic Plan (CFSP) for the period 2021–2020;
fisheries agreements;
economic, social and territorial cohesion;
security and peace and stability;
emergency aid reserve;
environmental protection measures.
Rules for the budgetary procedure
The institutions must ensure that:
sufficient margins are left available under the ceilings for the various headings of the financial framework, except for the sub-heading "Economic, social cohesion" and
the social protection measures;
budgetary discipline;
climate spending targets are set out in the CFSPP budget chapter.
The Institutions must ensure as far as possible during budgetary procedures and at the time the general budget is adopted that sufficient margins remain under the ceiling for the different headings.
Cooperation between the Institutions
Where there is insufficient progress towards the climate spending target in one or more of the relevant programmes, the institutions will consult each other on appropriate measures to ensure that EU spending on climate objectives over the entire MFF 2021-2020 corresponds to at least the target.
Each quarter, the Commission must present to the Parliament and to the Council detailed information about the implementation of fisheries agreements in force and a financial forecast for the remainder of the year. The Commission may propose to mobilise the amounts corresponding to all or part of these amounts, in relation to a draft budget or a draft amending budget.
Where the conditions for mobilising the Solidarity and Emergency Aid Reserve are met, it must submit a proposal for a transfer from that Reserve to the corresponding budget lines in accordance with the Financial Regulation.
In the case of a new MFF or a revision thereof, the EU institutions must take any measure necessary to facilitate the adoption of a revised MFF, including:
an amendment of the budget;
a revision of the annex to the agreement;
procedures to be followed in the event of the withdrawal of funds from the reserve.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
The Agreement entered into force on 1 February 2021.
BACKGROUND
   
The MFF is the EU’s third financial framework. It is the first financial framework to be adopted by the EU as a whole.
For more information, see:
Multiannual Financial Framework (European Commission).
MAIN DOCUMENTS
Council Decision (EU/2021/EU of 21 January 2021 on the signature and provisional implementation of the Framework Agreement on Budgetary Discipline and Cooperation between the Union Institutions (OJ L 183, 1.2.2021, pp. 1–2)
Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2021- 2027 of 20 January 2021 establishing a framework agreement on the budgetary discipline of the Union and on the cooperation and coordination between the EU Institutions concerning budgetary matters, and repealing Council Regulation (EURI) 2020/2094 (1) (the "EURI Regulation).
Council Implementing Decision (Euratom) 2019/852 of 31 December 2019 on the conclusion, in principle, of the Agreement on Fiscal Responsibility and Coherence between the Member States and the Commission concerning budgetary discipline in the framework of the Multiannual Fiscal Framework 2021– 2027 (the ‘CFSP Agreement’).
Successive amendments to the Agreement have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
Council Delegated Regulation (EC) No 596/2013 of 31 October 2013 establishing a multiannually financial framework 2021–2101 laying down the framework for budgetary discipline (the 'CFSP Budget Agreement').
See consolidated version.
last update 04.02.2022



Summary 65:
Economic and social support for the COVID-19 crisis: financial instruments and budgetary guarantees (until 31 December 2023)
Economic and Social Support for the crisis caused by COVID‑19
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2018/1046 — financial instruments for the economic and social recovery of the Member States affected by the crisis of COVID‐19
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
   
It sets up a financial instrument to help Member States recover from the impact of the crisis in the aftermath of the devastating COVID–19 crisis.
KEY POINTS
The instrument is financed by the EU’s own resources (OJ L 168 of 26.5.2014).
It provides for non-repayable support, support through financial instruments or provisioning for budgetary guarantees and related expenditure by the European Union (EU) and the European Commission.
The amount of the instrument is up to an amount of EUR 750 million in 2018 prices on the basis of the empowerment provided for in Article 5 of the Own Resources Decision. This amount is divided into two parts:
€ 384 400 million for loans to Member States and € 5 600 million for the EU programmes referred to in Article 21(5) of Regulation (Euratom) No 1046 of the European Parliament and of the Council (the ‘Financial Regulation’);
€ 5.600 million for expenditure for support for specific EU programmes.
In view of the nature of the amounts available under the Instrument should not be automatically carried over beyond the respective end dates, except for commitment appropriations for technical and administrative assistance for implementation of the measures set out in the Instrument.
EU programmes
The EU programmes covered by the Instrument are:
the EU programmes for sustainable and resilient recovery of economic activity (e.g. tourism, agriculture and rural development);
the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) for rural areas;
the Economic and Social Fund (ESFAD) for the implementation of EU programmes in the field of rural development.
Funding of the Instrument
The Instrument is financed in accordance with the rules laid down in the Regulation on the use of the own resources of the EU. It is divided in two parts. The first part is used for loans for Member States, while the other part is external assigned revenue for the purpose of implementing the Regulation.
Financial instruments
The financial instruments provided for under the Regulation are the following:
a budgetary guarantee agreement between the Commission and the EU Member States for the financial support provided for by the instrument;
a financial instrument for the financing of the specific programmes covered under the instrument.
Budget appropriations for the different types of support, including:
loans for loans;
recipients’ contributions to the expenditure of the instruments;
guarantees for budgetary support;
commitment appropriations for expenditure;
budget appropriations to implement the measures.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
The regulation entered into force on 31 December 2018.
BACKGROUND
 
  The COVID crisis has caused significant disturbances to economic activity which are reflected in a steep decline in gross domestic product and a significant impact on employment, social conditions, poverty and inequalities.
To prevent further deterioration of the economy, employment and social cohesion, an exceptional and coordinated programme of economic and economic support should be put in place, in particular for those Member States that have been particularly hard hit.
For more information, see:
‘Cohesion Fund’ on the Commission's website.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EU), Euratom — Financial Instrument for the Economic Recovery of Member States Affected by the Crisis of the Central African Republic (2014)
31.4.2018, pp. 1-9
RELATED DOCUMENTS
  i.e. Implementing Regulation (EC) No 946/2014 of the General Assembly of 27 May 2014 on the allocation of funds to the European Economic and Fiscal Union (2014-2023) (Official Journal L 167 of 27.6.2014) (See amending act(s)
last update 27.02.2022



Summary 66:
Sanctions for Member States whose currency is the euro
Sanctions on Member States' excessive government deficits
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 652/97 — sanctions for Member State's excessive government deficit
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes a system of sanctions for the prevention and corrective parts of the Stability and Growth Pact (SGP).
It aims to ensure that Member States with a deficit over the reference value of the euro area’s currency are subject to sanctions.
It sets out the amount of interest-bearing deposits, of the non-interest-bearing deposit and of the fines provided for in this regulation.
KEY POINTS
Sanctioning
The regulation sets out:
the amount of the interest and the noninterest-bearing deposits and of fines for the Member States’ excessive deficit;
the minimum requirements for national budgetary frameworks, including macroeconomic imbalances, and enhanced financial market regulation and supervision;
a multilateral surveillance system organised by the European Systemic Risk Board (ESRB);
the procedure for preventing and correcting the excessive deficit as regulated by Article 126 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
The European Commission is responsible for assessing the effectiveness and adequacy of the sanctions and for conducting the investigations.
The Commission must submit a report to the Council every 3 years on the effectiveness of these sanctions. The Council adopts a recommendation to the European Parliament and the European Economic and Social Committee (EEC) on the implementation of the SGPP.
If a Member State fails to comply with the Council recommendation, the Commission must recommend that the Council, by a further decision, require the Member State to lodge with the Commission a deposit amounting to 0.2 % of its gross domestic product (GDP) of the preceding year. The Member State must lodge the deposit within 20 days of adoption of the Council's decision. If the Council considers that a Member States has not taken action in response to its recommendation, it may, by 20 days, require it to lodge a further deposit of 0. The amount of this deposit must be set in such a way as to ensure a fair graduation of sanctions in the preventive and corrective aspects of the GSP and to provide sufficient incentives for the EU countries whose currencies are the euro to comply.
In addition, the Council may adopt measures in accordance with the principles of subsidiarity as set out in Article 5 of the TFEU. These measures are designed to:
prevent and correct excessive deficits;
ensure that the medium-term budgetary objective is met;
provide incentives to Member States to adjust to and maintain the budgetary objective;
allow the Commission to carry out its investigations and to impose fines for infringements of the rules and regulations of the EU.
Penalties
The Regulation sets out detailed criteria for establishing the amount and duration of the fine and the procedures for conducting investigations. It also sets out how the fine is to be calculated. The Commission must inform the Council and the EEC of the results of its investigations. The decision requiring a lodgement of a deposit must not be adopted by the Council unless it is qualified by a qualified majority of the members of the Parliament or the Council.
Member States that fail to comply may be subject to fines of up to €500,000. The maximum amount of a fine may be reduced to €250,000 for each Member State that does not comply with its budgetary obligations.
A Member State whose deficit is above the Reference Value of the Euro Area is subject to a fine of €50,000 if it is found to have not complied with its obligations. The fine must be calculated according to the following criteria:
a Member State has not met its obligations under the GPP;
it has not adopted a decision to reduce its deficit to the Medium-Term Budget Objective (MBO);
it is not in a position to meet its obligations in respect of the adjustment and adherence to its medium-Term Fiscal Objective (MTOR);
its deficit is not exceeding the reference values of its Member States;
its debt is not above the medium term budgetary objective.
Where Member States do not meet their obligations under this Regulation, the fine must not exceed €50 000.
Sanitation of Member States
The Member State in question must lodge a deposit with the European Commission of 0% of its GDP in the following circumstances:
an exceptional deficit of more than 0.6 % of GDP;
an excessive deficit of over 0.8 % of the GDP; or
a deficit of less than 1% of GDP.
An exceptional deficit exceeding 0.5 % of gross domestic products (GBO) is considered to be excessive if it has not been reduced to the MBO;
in exceptional circumstances, an excess of a government deficit is considered exceptional within the meaning of the second indent of point (a) of Article 126(2) of The Treaty on European



Summary 67:
Population and housing statistics — common rules for the decennial provision of comprehensive data on population and housing (Regulation (EC) No 652/2008)
Population and Housing statistics — Common rules for collecting comprehensive data
SUMMARY OF:
Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 608/2008 on the collection, transmission and dissemination of Community statistics
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes common rules to ensure that the European Union (EU) Member States submit to the European Commission (Eurostat) data on the population, social and economic characteristics of persons, families and households, as well as on housing at a national, regional and local level.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to the population* and housing* data collected by the Member States. It covers:
the population of the European Community (now the EU) as a whole;
the number of households and the number of people living in each Member State;
national and regional surveys of the population and of the housing at the national and regional levels.
Data sources and methodology
The Member States must submit to Eurostat:
a combination of register-based censuses, sample surveys and conventional censuses;
appropriate surveys with rotating samples (rolling censuses).
The data sources and methods used must meet the essential features of population-based and housing censuses as defined in Article 2(i) of the regulation.
Eurostat must assess the quality of the data transmitted and ensure that they conform with the principles of impartiality, objectivity, scientific independence and scientific independence, transparency, reliability, relevance, cost-effectiveness, confidentiality and statistical confidentiality.
The quality of data transmitted must be assessed by the European Statistical Programme Committee, assisted by the statistical programme committee.
In the event of a revision or correction of the statistics supplied under this regulation, the data must be sent to the Commission no later than one month before the release of the revised data.
Quality assessment
Member States must transmit the technical specifications of the topics as required by this regulation as and of their breakdowns, in accordance with the regulatory procedure referred to in Article 8(2). The Commission assesses the quality and consistency of the transmitted data and the metadata.
National and Community statistical authorities must take account of the principles set out in the European Statistics Code of Practice adopted on 24 February 2005 by the Statistical programme committee, established by Council Decision 89/382/EEC and attached to the Recommendation of the Commission on the independence, integrity and accountability of national and European statistical authorities.
Housing data
The Commission must collect detailed information on housing in support of various Community activities, such as the promotion of social inclusion and the monitoring of social cohesion at regional level, or the protection of the environment and the promoting energy efficiency. The Commission must ensure that these data are comparable between Member States and that they are comparable in terms of comparability, reliability and relevance. It must also ensure that their quality is assessed and that the data are transmitted to the national statistical authorities and Eurostat.
References
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member State
Official Journal
Regulation(EC), Euratom
1.1.2008
-
OJ L 61 of 5.3.2008.
RELATED ACTS
Commission Decision 1999/468/EC of 28 June 1999 laying down the procedures for the exercise of implementing powers conferred on the Commission.
Commission Regulation (Euratom, EC) No 322/97 of 17 February 1997 on Community Statistics (2).
last update 25.02.2016



Summary 68:
Rules of Procedure for Members of the European Parliament (Official Journal L 302 of 11.11.2019)
Rules of Procedures for Members Of The European Parliament
SUMMARY OF:
Decision (EU) 2019/302 — Rules of Procedure
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DECISION AND THE RULES OF PROCEDURE?
The decision sets out the rules of procedure for the 9th parliamentary term of European Parliament, the assembly elected pursuant to the Treaties, the act of 20 September 1976 concerning the election of the members of the Parliament by direct universal suffrage and the national legislation deriving from the same act.
The rules apply to the members who are elected to the assembly for the duration of the term of office of the ninth parliamentary term.
KEY POINTS
Members of the assembly are referred to as:
‘members’ in Bulgarian, Bulgarian, Croatian, Czech, Estonian, French, German, Greek, Spanish, Hungarian, Italian, Slovenian, Portuguese, Romanian, Spanish and Slovenian.
They may also be referred to in writing as ‘Diputados al Parlamento Europeo’, ‘Poslanci Evropského parlamentu’ and ‘Medlemmer af Europa-Parlamentet’.
Members are elected for a term of 5 years. They do not hold any office incompatible with that of an EU Member of Parliament within the meaning of Article 7(1) or (2) of the Statute for Members.
Independent mandate
. They exercise their mandate freely and independently, shall not be bound by any instructions and shall not receive a binding mandate.
Member of Parliament:
has the right to participate actively in the work of the committees and delegations in accordance with the provisions of Parliament’s rules on the use of gender-neutral language in its documents;
is a laissez-passer of the EU allowing a Member to circulate freely in the Member States and in other countries which recognise it as a valid travel document;
has a right to inspect the institutions of the Member State in which they live and work;
may refuse to perform their parliamentary duties if they consider it difficult to do so;
must not disclose their personal or professional duties to the public;
can not be held liable for any damage caused by their failure to fulfil their duties.
When a Member resigns from his or her seat in Parliament, he or she must inform the committee responsible of the date on which that resignation is to take effect, which may not be more than 3 months after notification. If the committee considers that the resignation is in compliance with the act, a vacancy is declared with effect from the date indicated by the resigning Member in the official record, and the President must inform Parliament thereof.
In the event of the withdrawal of a Member's mandate pursuant to Article 13(3) of that Act, the President informs Parliament of the reason for the withdrawal. The President must also inform the Committee of the Regions and the European Economic and Social Committee, which is responsible for the implementation of the Act, of the reasons for the decision.
Duties of the Members:
perform their legislative duties;
participate actively in their committees, delegations and meetings of the Standing Committee on European Parliament and the Committee on the European External Action Service (EEA);
have the right, in writing, to inspect and inspect the bodies and bodies of the institutions and bodies responsible for carrying out their work, and to give their opinion on their performance;
make a statement in writing to the Committee and to the Parliamentary Bureau on the performance of their duties, in the absence of which they are not able to perform them;
provide a statement to the committee and the committee on the basis of which it is confident that they are able to carry out their duties and that their performance is not difficult to perform;
notify the committee of all the reasons why they do not perform their duties or that they would not be able to fulfil them.
If the Committee considers that a Member is unable to perform his/her parliamentary duties, it may, after hearing the Member's reasons for not performing them, order that the Member be informed in writing in writing of any reason why he/she would not perform them or that it would be difficult for him/her to perform these duties. The Member must also provide the Committee with a statement on the grounds that he or her performance is difficult or would be impossible to perform those duties. In addition, the Committee may order the Member to provide a statement for the Committee in writing concerning any reason which would make it difficult or impossible for him or her to perform the duties of the Committee or the committees.
References
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Official Journal
Official Journal
Council Decision No 302/2019/EU
9th Parliamentary term
9.11.2019
-




Summary 69:
European Data Protection Supervisor (EDPS) — mission, responsibilities and organisational structure
European Data Processing Supervisor (EDPB) — Mission, duties and organisation
SUMMARY OF:
Decision (EU) 2018/1725 establishing an independent authority responsible for ensuring that the fundamental rights and freedoms of natural persons, and in particular their right to data protection, with respect to the processing of personal data, are respected by the EU institutions, bodies, offices and agencies
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DECISION AND THE REGULATION?
The decision establishes an independent European data protection supervisor responsible for the protection of the rights and fundamental freedoms of persons in the European Union (EU).
The regulation sets out the tasks of the EDPS. The regulation also establishes the structure of the European Data Protection Board (EDPB).
KEY POINTS
The EDPS is responsible for:
ensuring that:
data protection is respected by EU institutions and bodies;
the protection of persons’ personal data is respected;
personal data are processed in accordance with the relevant EU legal acts.
It is assisted by a secretariat.
The European Directorate-General for the Protection of the Fundamental Rights and Freedoms of Natural Persons, the European Ombudsman and the European Privacy and Civil Protection Bureau (EPDB).
It has a Director, a Director and a Director’s Deputy. The Director assists the European Director and the Heads of Units and Sectors and ensures strategic oversight of the work of the EDPBudget.
In addition to the Director, the Director is the Director of the Head of Unit or Head of Sectors, who is the highest-ranking official in each unit or sector.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS DECISION APPLACE APPLY?
It applies from 1 January 2019.
BACKGROUND
The EU has adopted a number of implementing acts, including:
Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2017/1939 on data protection;
Directive (EU), Euratom and Euratom on the protection and management of data;
EU rules on the right of access to personal data and the right to be informed about the processing and use of their personal data.
For more information, see:
European data protection supervisors (European Commission).
MAIN DOCUMENTS
   
Council Decision No 652/2018/EU of 25 May 2018 establishing an Independent Authority responsible for safeguarding the fundamental Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and the Rights of Persons in respect of the Processing of Personal Data of the EU Institutions, Bodies, Offices and Agencies (EDPs) (OJ L 183, 1.6.2018, pp. 1-8)
Regulations (EU and Eurat) 2017 /1939 of the Council and of the Representatives of the Governments of the Member States on the Protection and Management of Personal data and on the implementation of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR).
Successive amendments and corrections to Regulation (EU):
Council Implementing Regulation (EC) No 596/2013 of 22 December 2013 establishing a European Union data protection board and repealing Council Regulation (Euratom) No 696/2012 (Oj L 181, 28.12.2013, pp 1-2)
Commission Implementing Decision (EU)(EU) 2016/680 of 18 December 2016 establishing a Secretariat for the European Parliament, the Council, the Commission and the Economic and Social Committee (EPSC) on the establishment of a European Parliament and the Council data protection bureau (EPCB) and repealing Decision (EURAT) No 752/2012 of the same date.
Council implementing Regulation (ESP) 2018 /1725 of 21 December 2018 establishing the European Commission and European Parliament data protection body (EPDB) and amending Council Implementing Regulations (EC, Eurat and EPSC).
See consolidated version.
last update 04.02.2021



Summary 70:
System of own resources for the multiannual financial framework 2021-2027 (OJ L 183, 31.12.2027)
System of its own resources
SUMMARY OF:
Decision No 183/2027/EU on the establishment of a system of own resource
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DECISION?
It establishes a new system of EU own resources based on value added tax (VAT) to make it as simple and transparent as possible, to strengthen the link with EU VAT policy and the actual VAT receipts, and to ensure equal treatment of taxpayers in all EU countries.
It sets up a system for calculating the EU’s own resources.
KEY POINTS
The decision sets out the rules for the implementation of the new own resource system.
The new system is based on a uniform VAT base for each EU country. The VAT base must not exceed 1.40 % of all taxable supplies divided by the weighted average VAT rate calculated for the relevant calendar year.
EU countries’ share of the temporarily increased own resources ceiling is 0.6 % of their gross national income (GNI) for the period 2021–2027. This ceiling can be increased to 0.8 % if new own resources have been introduced after 2021 in accordance with Regulation (EEC, Euratom) No 1553/89 (see summary).
The own resource calls are announced by the Commission to EU countries in advance and should be strictly pro rata to the estimated budget revenue of each country, and should not exceed 50 % of the EU countries‘s GNI.
Member States may not exceed a uniform call for the following the adoption of this decision.
A uniform call must be made for each Member State for each of the following own resources:
the VAT base to be taken into account for this own resource;
the volume of waste generated by EU countries;
a uniform call to be made by the European Commission for the recycling of packaging waste generated in the Member States concerned;
an annual call for recycling of plastic and paper that is not recycled for the purposes of the European Union (EU);
a call for recycled paper and plastic that are not recycled in Romania, Bulgaria, Croatia, Greece, Hungary, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Malta, Poland, Romania, Slovakia and Slovenia.
Amounts not used for interest payments as foreseen will be used for early repayments before the end of the MFF 2021, with a minimum amount, and may be increased above this level provided that the new system has not yet been introduced.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS DECISION APPLY?
From 31 December 2027.
BACKGROUND
The EU has been working towards the introduction of other own resources, which may include a Financial Transaction Tax.
For more information, see:
‘The EU's own resources’ on the Commission's website.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Decision (EU) No 183 / 2027/Euratom of 31 October 2027 establishing the system of the own resources of the Union and repealing Council Decision 2014/335/EU (3)
last update 04.11.2021



Summary 71:
Tyre labelling
Tyre labels
Tire labels
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) 2017/1369 on the labelling of tyres
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out the rules on tyre labelling.
It repeals and repeals Regulation (EC) No 1222/2009.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to tyres of all types, irrespective of their size and type. It does not apply to:
new tyres;
new vehicles fitted on new vehicles;
tires fitted on existing vehicles; and
new heavy-duty vehicles.
EU countries must ensure that tyre labels and product information sheets are accurate, reproducible and reproducible, and that tyre manufacturers are able to check that they comply with the regulation’s requirements.
The tyre label of a tyre which satisfies the minimum ice grip performance standards should show the ice grip pictogram set out in Annex I. The ice grip index values must be included on all technical promotional material and visual advertisements for specific tyre types, including where such material is made available on the internet. It must also be included in the product database established under Regulation (EU).
The information on fuel efficiency, wet grip and external rolling noise must be displayed on the tyre label. It should also appear on the product information sheet.
In addition, tyre labels must include the following information:
the fuel efficiency* and wet grip* values;
the rolling resistance* of the tyre;
a description of the tyres’ performance in actual use;
informative information on tyre characteristics;
how the tyres are abrasion-free tyres are treated during use.
the number of tyres available for sale in the EU.
instructions for tyre manufacturers, importers, distributors and tyre importers.
Importers and importers must provide the European Commission with a list of tyres covered by the regulation.
Distributors must ensure the information they provide to consumers and distributors is up-to-date and accurate.
Manufacturers must ensure their products comply with all the requirements of the regulation and that they provide the Commission with the information it requires in the form of a product database. They must also ensure that the information provided by tyre manufacturers is available to the Commission and to the end-users.
If a tyre manufacturer fails to comply with this regulation, it must inform the Commission, the European Parliament and the Council of the reasons for this failure.
FROM WHEN DOES THE LEGULATION APPLY?
 
It has applied since 1 January 2019. EU countries had to incorporate it into national law by 1 January 2020.
BACKGROUND
   Â  
The EU has adopted a number of measures to reduce the environmental impact of road transport. These include:
Directive 2000/31/EC on the monitoring and reporting of CO2 emissions from and fuel consumption of new heavy‐duty vehicles (see summary); and
Delegated Regulation (EEC) 2019/1242 on the CO2 emission performance standards for new heavy‑duty vehicles, see summary.
For more information, see:
Tires (European Commission).
MAIN DOCUMENT
 			
Commission Implementing Regulation (U.S.A. 2019/1368 of 12 January 2019 on the harmonisation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to tyres and amending Regulations (EC, Euratom) No 661/2009, (EC and Euratom).
Successive amendments to Regulation (US) No 1369 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
Regulations (EU: 2019/1169 of the European Central Bank and of the Committee of the Regions on the measurement of fuel efficiency and the performance of road tyres (OJ L 347, 31.12.2019, pp. 1-8)
Regulatory (EU): 2019/1193 of the Council and of 11 December 2019 on fuel consumption and performance of light commercial vehicles and of heavy commercial vehicles, amending Council Regulations (EU), (EC), (Euratom) and (EC).
See consolidated version.
Commission Delegated Regulations (E.EU) 2018/852 of 12 December 2018 on the emission performance of new vehicles and on heavy commercial trucks and of medium commercial vehicles (EC(2018) No 852/2018, EC(2019) and EC(2020) No 1052/2020) and repealing Council Regulation (ES) No 1169/2009 (EC); and Regulation (EA) No 552/2009 of the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe (UNECE).
Commission Directive 2000/30/EC of 26 November 2000 on the assessment of the effects of microplastics on the environment and human health of tyres during use (Directive 2001/40/EC). See consolidated version of the Treaty on the Function



Summary 72:
Funding for customs control equipment
Funding of customs controls
SUMMARY OF:
Implementing Regulation (EU) 2019/852 establishing the Fund for Financial Support for Border Management and Visa Policy
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes the European Union’s Fund for Fiscal Support for Customs Control Equipment.
It aims to provide financial support to EU countries to improve the effectiveness of customs control at the external borders of the EU.
KEY POINTS
EU countries have been taking on an increasing number of responsibilities which are carried out at their external borders and which often extend into the security field. The need for adequate customs controls with equivalent results is ever more pressing, not only because of the traditional function of customs, which is to collect revenue, but also because there is a need to significantly reinforce the control of goods entering and exiting the EU's external borders in order to ensure both safety and security.
To achieve this, the Fund supports the development of modern, reliable and cost-effective equipment for customs controls.
The Fund is funded by the European Commission and the European Economic and Social Fund (ESF).
It covers the costs of equipment of which the primary aim is integrated border management, but will also allow that equipment to be used for additional purposes, such as border controls and security, as well as for the protection of the financial and economic interests of EU countries. The Fund has a maximum ceiling of €1.5 billion.
In addition, the Commission may grant up to €1 billion in grants, prizes and awards.
to EU countries for the best practice in the field of border management and border control.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULTRY TO APPLY?
The Regulation has applied since 1 January 2019.
BACKGROUND
The European Union has a customs union. Since the customs union is essential for the proper functioning of the internal market, and for businesses and citizens to benefit from it, continuous steps to strengthen it are needed.
For more information, see:
EU Customs Union (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Customs control equipment: the equipment used by customs authorities to monitor and control goods entering or leaving the EU and to ensure that they comply with the rules and regulations of the Union.
* Integrated border management: the system of checks and controls of goods crossing the external border of an EU country.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Commission Implementing Regulation(EU) 2018/922 of 21 December 2018 establishing the Instrument for Financial support for Customs control Equipment (OJ L 183, 31.12.2018, pp. 1-24)
RELATED DOCUMENTS
Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 852/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 establishing the European Border and Coast Guard Fund and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 552/2004 of 22 December 2004 on the establishment of a European Union Customs Union and repealing Regulation (Euratom).
Council Decision 2013/856/EU of 23 November 2013 establishing a European Commission Customs Union Fund.
last update 27.02.2021



Summary 73:
Electricity market liberalisation — rules for the internal market for electricity
Electricity markets liberalised— rules for electricity market liberalising
SUMMARY OF:
Directive (EU) 2019/943 on the liberalisation of the electricity market
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DIRECTIVE?
It aims to liberalise the EU’s internal electricity market, which has been progressively implemented throughout the EU since 1999.
It recasts and repeals Directive 1999/36/EC.
KEY POINTS
The directive aims to:
ensure that electricity consumers have access to competitive electricity markets across the EU;
improve the transparency of electricity markets;
increase consumer participation and cross-border cooperation;
promote investment in new electricity generation and transmission networks.
The aim of the directive is to ensure that:
there is no distortion of market prices;
electricity prices are not artificially fixed;
there are adequate economic incentives to encourage investment in electricity generation;
the market is open and transparent;
market participants have the right to participate in the decision-making process and to be informed of the offers and savings available on the competitive market, in particular relating to dynamic electricity price contracts, and consumers are provided with assistance to respond to and benefit from market-based offers.
In addition, the directive sets out rules on:
transparency of the market and transparency of the wholesale electricity market;
rules on market participants’ rights and obligations;
public service obligations in the form of price setting for the supply of electricity;
requirements for the transmission and distribution of electricity.
the possibility for EU countries to impose public service obligations on electricity undertakings.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS DIRECTIVE APPLACTS APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 January 2019 and had to become law in the EU Member States by 1 January 2021.
BACKGROUND
The European Commission Communication of 15 July 2015, entitled ‘Launching the public consultation process on a new energy market design’, highlighted that the move away from generation in large central generating installations towards decentralised production of electricity from renewable sources and towards decarbonised markets requires adapting the current rules of electricity trading and changing the existing market roles.
For more information, see:
‘Electricity’ on the European Commission's website.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Regulation (EC) No 552/2014
1.1.2026
-
OJ L 127 of 1.2.2022
RELATED ACTS
 
Directives (EC, Euratom) No 652/2013 and (EC), No 553/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 on the internal energy market, and repealing Directives 1999/37/EC and 1999/38/EC of the Parliament and the Council, and Directives 2001/40/EC, 2001/50/EC (EC and Euratom), 2001/30/EC) and 2001/60/EC as regards the rules on the wholesale market (Directive 2001/10/EC).
Communication from the Commission to the Council on the implementation of Directive (EU), Commission and European Parliament, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions of 15 December 2015 on the establishment of a European electricity market (COM(2015) 652 final - Not published in the Official Journal).
last update 04.02.2021



Summary 74:
Supercomputing and quantum computing: European High Performance Computing Joint Undertaking (EuroHPCJoint Undertaking 2021-2027)
Specialising in high-performance computing (HPC) and supercomputing, quantum computing and data capabilities, the EuroHPC joint undertaking aims to ensure that the European Union (EU) enjoys world-class supercomputer capabilities according to its economic potential, matching the needs of European users.
ACT
Council Regulation (EC) 2021/694 of 27 May 2021 establishing a European High-Performance Computing and Quantum Computing Joint undertaking.
SUMMARY
WHAT DOES THIS REGULATION DO?
It establishes a joint undertaking for the purpose of implementing the strategic EU vision in High Performance Computers and Quantum Computers.
KEY POINTS
The aim of the joint undertaking is to:
contribute to the development of a European high performance computing and supercomputer ecosystem;
promote the use of supercomputers and data infrastructures, technologies and applications in the EU and worldwide;
ensure that the EU has a world-leading supercomputer and data infrastructure capable of meeting the demands of users;
support the development and deployment of high-performing systems of the highest quality;
cooperate with the private sector and the public sector in the field of research and innovation;
provide services and training to users and promote the creation of knowledge and skills;
facilitate the exchange of information and communication technologies and expertise in the area of High-Performing Computing;
encourage the sharing of best practices and best practices in the fields of research, innovation and technology development;
increase user access to high-performancy computing facilities and services;
develop and promote knowledge-based services and technologies;
raise awareness of the importance of the EU’s high-Performancy capabilities;
establish a network of national centres and centres of excellence for the provision of services and the training of key skills.
Objectives
The joint undertaking has a number of objectives, including:
promoting the use and development of supercomputer infrastructure;
creating a European ecosystem for the development, deployment and use of high performance Computing and quantum technologies and their applications;
improving the availability of high performing computing services and systems;
increasing the user-access to supercomputer facilities;
contributing to the creation and dissemination of knowledge, skills and knowledge;
raising awareness of user-oriented and application-driven capabilities; and
providing user-driven services and services to increase user access and use.
The Joint undertaking is funded by the European Commission under the multiannual financial framework for the years 2021 to 2027 (the ‘MFF 2021–2027’).
The financial contributions from non-EU countries are to be at least equal to 50% and should be able to reach up to 75% of the aggregated joint undertaking budgetary commitments.
In addition, the European Strategic Investment Facility (ESIF) and the Connecting Europe Facility (CEF) are to make financial contributions of up to €1.5 billion and €2 billion, respectively.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
The regulation entered into force on 1 July 2021.
BACKGROUND
   
For more information, see:
‘EuroHighPerformanceComputing’ on the Commission's website.
* KEY TERMS
* High performance computing: the ability of a supercomputer to perform complex calculations at a very high level. It is the capability of a computer to process large quantities of data in a very short period of time. It can also be used to perform advanced scientific and technological tasks.
• Supercomputing: the capability to perform high-precision calculations at very low power. It has the potential to be used in medicine, transport and the environment, and to develop innovative solutions for medicine and transport.
** Quantum computing: a new generation of computing that is capable of performing supercomputer-like calculations. It consists of the ability to perform supercomputer operations at very high power and to perform quantum computing operations at extremely high power.
MAIN DOCUMENT
  Ега
Commission Regulation (EEC) 2019/852 of 26 May 2021 laying down a European Partnership for the implementation of the strategic Union vision in the High-performance Computing and the Quantum Computing and Data capabilities of the 21st century (OJ L 183, 1.7.2019, pp. 1-8)
last update 27.02.2021



Summary 75:
Climate action and the EU’s transition to a climate-neutral economy by 2050 (European Green Deal)
Climate actions and the transition to an economy that is climate neutral
The European Green Deal sets out a new growth strategy that aims to transform the EU into a fair and prosperous society, with a modern, resource-efficient and competitive economy, where there are no net emissions of greenhouse gases in 2050 and where economic growth is decoupled from resource use.
ACT
Communication from the Commission to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions of 11 December 2019 on climate action and a climate neutral economy.
SUMMARY
WHAT DOES THE COMMUNICATION DO?
The Commission has, in its communication, in the framework of the ‘Green Deal’, set out a growth strategy for the European Union (EU) by 2050.
The strategy is based on the Paris Agreement on climate change and on the best available scientific knowledge. It aims to:
ensure that the EU is a global leader in the transition towards climate neutrality by 2050;
reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions to zero by 2050, while increasing the resilience of the economy to the adverse impacts of climate change.
KEY POINTS
The EU is committed to stepping up efforts to tackle climate change, and to delivering on the implementation of the Paris agreement adopted under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (the ‘Paris Agreement’.
To achieve this, the EU countries must:
take action to reduce GHG emissions to no net GHG in the EU by 2050 and to a low-carbon economy;
make finance flows consistent with a pathway towards low greenhouse gas emissions and climate-resilient development, as set out in Article 2(1) of the agreement;
take the necessary measures to adapt to climate change;
encourage the development of a well-functioning internal energy market and the improvement of energy efficiency, while reducing energy poverty.
In addition, the Commission should facilitate sector-specific climate dialogues and partnerships by bringing together key stakeholders in an inclusive and representative manner, so as to encourage sectors themselves to draw up indicative voluntary roadmaps and to plan their transition towards achieving the EU's climate neutrality objective.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS COMMUNITY COMMUNITY COMMENT APPLY?
It has applied since 12 December 2019.
BACKGROUND
The climate crisis is becoming more and more severe. The United Nations Climate Change Panel (IPCC) has issued a report on the impacts of global warming of 1.5 °C above pre-industrial levels and related global greenhouse gas emission pathways.
For more information, see:
‘Climate action’ on the European Commission's website.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Regulation (EC) No 401/2019
11.12.2019
-
OJ L 127 of 11.12, 2019
RELATED ACTS
Directive 2013/31/EU of the European Central Bank and of the Council of 21 December 2013 on climate neutrality and repealing Directives 2012/27/EU and 2013/34/EU (Official Journal C 202 of 21.12).
Directives 2013/30/EU, 2013/35/EU or 2013/36/EU/EC and 2014/34 of the EU Parliament and of 22 December 2013 establishing a European Energy Union and repealing Directive 2012/28/EU.
Regulations 2013/33/EU on the Clean Energy for All Europeans, 2013 and 2014 and Directives 2014/35, 2014/32/EU as regards energy efficiency and deployment of renewable energy, and repealing Council Regulation (EC, EC, EC and EC) No 652/2013 and Directive 2012/34 and 2013 /34/EC as regards renewable energy.
Council Regulation (EU, EC) 2018/2001 of 30 November 2018 laying down a framework for climate neutrality in the energy sector and repealing Regulation (EEC, Euratom) No 478/2013.
last update 14.02.2021



Summary 76:
Public health programme for the period 2018-2021
Public health Programme for the year 2018-2020
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 552/2018 establishing a European Union public health programme
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes a programme to support the implementation of the European Union’s (EU) public health policy in the period from 1 January 2018 to 22 December 2020.
It sets out the specific objectives of the programme.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The programme covers:
health promotion and disease prevention;
preventing and responding to health emergencies;
improving mental health throughout the lifetime of an individual by addressing health risk factors, and health determinants;
enhancing access to sexual and reproductive healthcare, quality of life, workers’ health, productivity, competitiveness and inclusiveness, while reducing pressures on national healthcare systems and national budgets.
Programme objectives
In line with the ‘One Health’ and ‘Health in All Policies’ approaches, the programme is designed to:
promote health promotion;
improve mental health;
ensure access to quality of healthcare;
contribute to the attainment of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs);
improve the quality of living and working conditions of workers;
reduce health inequalities and inequities;
encourage cooperation between EU countries;
increase the effectiveness of the internal market;
support research and innovation;
foster the development of new medicines and medical devices;
strengthen the monitoring and control of the supply chain of medicines;
provide information to the general public on the availability of medicines, medical devices and medical products;
facilitate the exchange of information and best practice in the field of public health.
Specific actions
In order to achieve its objectives, the Programme supports actions in the following areas:
prevention and response to crisis prevention, preparedness and surveillance;
emergency response;
health literacy;
awareness-raising;
organ and blood donation;
reintegration of refugees and migrants into the labour market.
In addition, it supports the following actions:
information and awareness-raising activities;
exchange of best practice;
promotion and dissemination of information on the prevention, diagnosis and treatment of diseases;
education and training of health professionals;
training of healthcare workers and public health authorities;
cooperation and coordination among EU countries in the area of crisis prevention and preparedness;
the establishment of mechanisms for the efficient monitoring and needs-driven distribution or allocation of goods and services needed in times of crisis.
Implementation of the Programme
The Programme is funded by the EU Pre-accession Assistance III (PAA III) programme. It covers the period 2014-2020. This financial envelope comprises an amount of EUR 500 000 000 in 2018 and € 1.2 billion in 2019.
The budget is divided into the following allocations:
€ 500 000 for the general budget;
€ 1.1 billion for the specific budget; and
€ 552 million for the research and development budget.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
 
The regulation entered into force on 20 January 2018.
BACKGROUND
   
For more information, see:
‘Public Health Programme’ on the European Commission's website.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 540/2018 of 22 December 2018 establishing a programme for public health in the framework of the Framework Programme for European Union (OJ L 347, 20.12.2018, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EU, Eurat) No 480/2009 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 20.02.2021



Summary 77:
European audiovisual programme (EACD) 2019-2021
European audi-vocual-programme (EacD)2019-2020
SUMMARY OF:
Programme for the promotion of European cultural diversity
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE PROGRAMME?
It aims to promote the European cultural and creative sectors, in particular the film and television industries, by encouraging the creation, financing, producing and disseminating of works that are prominently displayed on different media, for example TV, cinema or Video On Demand, that are available and attractive to audiences in a more open and competitive market within Europe and beyond.
KEY POINTS
The programme is based on the freedom of artistic expression, the capabilities and competences of artists and cultural operators, the existence of flourishing and resilient cultures and the ability of these sectors to create, innovate and produce their works and distribute them to a larger and more diverse European audience.
It is funded by the European Union (EU) and the European Neighbourhood Policy countries and the EU’s strategic partners.
The budget is €2.5 billion.
EACDs are designed to:
increase awareness of the importance of the European film and TV industry;
promote the transnational circulation of artistic and cultural works, collections and products;
encourage dialogue and cultural exchanges;
facilitate cross-cutting activities supporting the news media sector.
In line with Articles 8 and 10 TFEU, the programme, in all its activities, should support gender mainstreaming and the mainstreaming of non-discrimination objectives and should, where applicable, define appropriate gender-balance criteria. It also aims to ensure fair remuneration of authors and performers, which are dimensions that should be taken into account across the programme.
Directive 2010/13/EU sets out the conditions for derogations from the obligation to fulfil the conditions set out in Directive 2010/15/EU.
FROM WHEN DOES THE PROGRAMMENDATION APPLY?
   
It entered into force on 1 January 2019.
BACKGROUND
The EACD is one of the three pillars of the ‘New Industrial Strategy for Europe’. The other two pillars are:
the ‘European cultural diversity’ and ‘the European creative sector.’
For more information, see:
‘Cultural Diversity’ on the European Commission's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Audiovisuality: the production, distribution and dissemination of films, television programmes and video-on-demand (VOD) services.
ACT
Commission Implementing Decision of 1 December 2019 establishing a Programme for the Promotion of European Cultural Diversity 2019-2020.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Decision
1.1.2019
-
OJ L 94 of 1.1-19.
RELATED ACTS
Communication from the Commission to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions: ‘A new industrial strategy for Europe 2020’ (COM(2020) 696 final - Not published in the Official Journal).
Directives 2010/14/EU and (EU/2019/790 of the Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2010 establishing a European audioviseural policy framework and establishing a framework for the implementation of the programme for the period 2010-2020 (OJ C 202 of 11.12.2010, pp. 1-2).
last update 27.02.2021



Summary 78:
European Institute of Innovation and Technology (EIT) 2021-2027 — strategy and priorities
European Institute OF INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY (Eit) 2021 - 2027 — strategic priorities
SUMMARY OF:
Decision (EU) 2021/819 — Strategic Framework Decision 2021/2027 on the European Institute of Innovation and Technology
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DECISION AND THE STRATEGY?
The decision sets out the priority fields and the strategy for the EIT’s activities for the seven-year period from 2021 to 2027.
The strategic framework decision (SIA) sets out a framework for the activities of the institute and the Knowledge and Innovation Communities (KICs) for the period 2021–2027. The KICs are established and mature and their partnership agreements are to be terminated after 2024, in line with the maximum grant duration.
KEY POINTS
The SIA:
sets out the priorities and the strategies for the institute for the duration of the SIA.
These are based on the results of the research and innovation activities carried out under the Horizon Europe programme, as well as on the strategic planning of Horizon Europe, and are consistent with other relevant EU priorities and commitments, including those related to the European Green Deal, the Recovery Plan for Europe, the European strategy for data, the SME Strategy for a sustainable and digital Europe and the New Industrial Strategy for Europe.
the SIA also includes an estimate of financial needs and sources for the future activities of EIT.
is designed to ensure consistency with Horizon Europe's strategic planning.
It also takes into account the strategic plans for Horizon Europe to ensure that the institute's activities continue to be consistent with the objectives of the programme.
Innovation ecosystem and knowledge triangle activities
The EIT works closely with the knowledge and innovation communities in order to develop and implement revenue-creating strategies to maintain their innovation ecosystem and activities beyond the period covered by the grant agreements.
A number of KIC communities have been set up in the European Union (EU). These are based in different regions of the EU and are responsible for organising research, innovation and knowledge-based activities in the area of research and technology. They are also responsible for the coordination of research, development and the dissemination of results of these activities.
Research and innovation ecosystem
The institute is responsible for developing and disseminating research, technology and innovation-based research and development (R&D) programmes in the field of R&D, including:
the European Innovation Scoreboard (EIS) and the European Research and Innovation Network (ERIN);
the Research & Innovation Strategy (R & I Strategy) for Europe (RIS);
exchange of best practice and best practice;
the R&I Strategy and the R & I Strategic Plan (RSP);
research and innovation programmes for Europe;
exchanges of best practices and best practices in the areas of R & D and innovation;
research, development, and dissemination of knowledge and technology programmes;
participation of universities and research institutes in the EIS and RIS.
Knowledge and Innovation communities
The European Innovation Communities are organised by the European Commission and are composed of universities, research centres and research centres in different EU countries. They aim to:
promote the integration of the knowledge triangle in the innovation value chain;
encourage closer interactions between the actors of the know-how and innovation ecosystems;
facilitate the exchange of information and experience between the different actors involved;
support the development of innovative products, processes, services, businesses and societal initiatives;
promoting the exchange and dissemination, in particular of the results and results of research;
contribute to the implementation of the Green Deal and the recovery plan for Europe and to achieving a net-zero greenhouse gas economy by 2050 at the latest.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
The Decision applies from 1 January 2021. The SIA applies from 31 December 2021.
BACKGROUND
   
For more information, see:
European institute of innovation and technology (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Innovation ecosystem: a network of innovation centres, research and technological institutes, knowledge and technological communities, universities and other research centres, which are organised in the context of the European Innovation Strategy.
* Knowledge and innovation community: an innovation ecosystem in which the knowledge of the various actors involved in innovation is integrated into the innovation ecosystem.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Regulation (EC) No 596/2011
1.1.2021
-
OJ L 127 of 1.1 January 2021
RELATED ACTS
 
Regulations (EC, Euratom) No 652/2011, (EC), No 653/2011 and (EC).
Directive 2011/13/EU



Summary 79:
Aromatised wine products — rules on the production, description, presentation, labelling and protection of geographical indications of certain aromatised wines (Regulation (EU) No 1169/2011)
Aromated wine products
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out the rules applicable to the definition, description and presentation of wine products with a geographical indication*.
It repeals Regulation (EEC) No 1601/91 and replaces it with this regulation.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to wine products which are produced in the EU and which have an indication of a region, a specific place, or a country where a given quality, reputation or other characteristics of the product is essentially attributable to its geographical origin. It does not apply to wines produced in non-EU countries.
It covers the following categories:
aromated wines;
maromated wine-based drinks;
arromised wine-product cocktails.
The rules apply to the presentation and labelling of these products, save as otherwise provided for in this regulation, except for the sales denomination, which is set out in the annex to the regulation. The annexes to this regulation supplement the rules laid down in the regulation on the description of the wine products and the geographical indication.
General rules
The European Commission is responsible for the implementation of the regulation and for ensuring that it is complied with by EU countries. It is assisted by the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA).
The Commission, which has powers to monitor and verify the compliance of EU countries with the regulations.
EU countries are allowed to adopt stricter rules than those laid down by the regulation, in so far as such rules are compatible with EU law.
Rules on geographical indications
The following rules apply:
the name of any wine product with a specific geographical indication;
the description and the presentation of aromatisation wine products;
a list of the specific characteristics of a wine product;
rules on the protection of the geographical indications and of existing geographical designations.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMESSAGE APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 January 2014.
BACKGROUND
The EU’s wine sector is one of the most dynamic and dynamic in the world, with a large number of producers and a wide range of products.
For more information, see:
‘Aromatic wines’ on the European Commission's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Aromatic wine: a wine which has a specific flavour, aroma, colour, texture or flavour profile and which has been flavoured or added to the wine by means of the addition of alcohol. It may also be a drink which is based on one or more of the grapevine products defined in points 1, 2 and 11 of the annex, with the exception of:
wine-product cocktail: a drink made from wine-derived drinks, which are based on wine-related drinks, and which are composed of wine and/or wine products, which have been sweetened;
wines with a flavour, texture, colour or flavour consisting of wine, wine products or wine products that have been added to wine, which may be sweetened or which has an actual alcoholic strength by volume of not less than 14.5%.
* Maromatic wines: wines which have a specific aromatic flavour, a texture, a flavour or a flavour profile, which consists of wine grapes, wine based drinks, wine product cocktails and wine products. They may be classified into the following:
a wine with an aromatic flavour;
an aromatic drink;
wine based drinks; and
wine products with an alcoholic strength of not more than 14% vol. of wine by volume.
MAIN DOCUMENT
 
Commission Decision 2014/852/EU of 20 December 2014 on the harmonisation of the laws of the Member States relating to the production and description, description of aromated wines and of certain aromatic wine products (OJ L 347, 31.12.2014, pp. 1-22)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EU, No 852/2014 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
Regulation(EU) 2015/1169 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2015 on the classification of wines, of wines with an aromatic flavour and of wines based on grapes and wines with a fruity or fruity flavour, and on wines with fruity and fruity flavours, and amending Regulations (EC, No 122/94, EC, No 1308/2013, EC) No 1309/2013 and (EC), No 1193/2014 of the Court of Justice of the EU, Council Regulation (EC) no 1282/2004, Council Regulations (EU), No 1284/2006 and (EU).
Commission Implementing Regulation (ES)



Summary 80:
Management measures for European eel in the Mediterranean and the Black Sea (2020-2021)
Management measures concerning European eels in the Black Seas and the Mediterranean (2020 -2021).
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 1380/2013 on the management measures for fish stocks
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes the total allowable catch (TAC) for certain fish stocks in the European Union (EU).
KEY POINTS
The regulation sets out:
the maximum allowable catch* for certain species of fish in the EU waters of the Mediterranean, Black Sea and Black Sea for the period between 1 August 2020 and 28 February 2021;
the target fishing mortality, in line with the ranges of FMSY defined in Article 2 of that regulation, is to be achieved as soon as possible, and on progressive and incremental basis by 2020 for the stocks listed in Article 1(1) of the regulation and shall be maintained thereafter within the ranges;
target fishing mortality for horse mackerel between ICES subarea 9 and ICES division 8c for 2020 and 2021, in accordance with Article 4 of that Regulation.
It sets out the maximum allowable fishing mortality (MSY) for European seabass between the sub-area 9 sub-divisions of the ICES and the divisions 8c and 8c.
For the period from 1 August 2021 to 28 February 2023, the maximum fishing mortality is set at 10 %.
In accordance with the Western Waters multiannual plan established by Regulation (EU 2019/472 of the European Parliament and of the Council (see summary), the target mortality for the following:
fishing mortality (target mortality) for the fish stocks listed below the range of maximum sustainable yield (FMSY);
target mortality (maximum sustainable yield) for all other fish stocks within the range for which fishing opportunities are fixed;
maximum fishing mortality* for the species listed above the ranges for fishing opportunities;
total allowable fishing opportunities for the fishing stocks listed above and below the ranges defined in the regulation.
Fishing opportunities
Fisheries are fixed on the basis of available scientific advice, taking into account biological and socio-economic aspects whilst ensuring fair treatment between fishing sectors, as well as in the light of the opinions expressed during the consultation of stakeholders, in particular at the meetings of the advisory councils.
When the landing obligation in respect of a fish stock applies, fishing opportunities must be fixed taking account of the change from fixing fishing opportunities that reflect landings to fixing fishing opportunity that reflect catches.
The European Commission is responsible for:
monitoring the fishing of fish stocks;
ensuring that fish stocks are managed according to the conservation objectives set out in Council Regulation (EC) No 1100/2007;
establishing specific TACs for by-catches for those stocks.
Measures for recreational fisheries
The Commission must also ensure that:
measures for recreational fishing are maintained;
measures are in place to protect the stocks concerned;
there is no fishing closure period;
fisheries in which the species are being caught are allowed to continue to be fished, subject to certain conditions.
FROM WHEN DOES THE REGUMENT APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 August 2019.
BACKGROUND
 
  The regulation establishes the EU’s fisheries management measures.
KEY TERMS
* Maximum sustainable yield: the amount of fish that can be caught in a given year. It is the maximum yield of all the fish species caught in that year.
* Fishing mortality: the total number of fish caught over a given period.
MAIN DOCUMENT
  i.e. the regulation laying down the TAC of the EU Member States for the management of fishing opportunities relating to certain species in their respective waters.
Successive amendments to the regulation have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
Council Regulation (EEC) 2018/973 of 21 December 2018 establishing the EU management measures concerning fish stocks (OJ L 347, 28.12.2018, pp. 1-8)
last update 28.02.2021



Summary 81:
Emergency macro-financial assistance to Ukraine
Emergency macro–financial assistance for Ukraine
SUMMARY OF:
Decision (EU) 2020/852 — emergency macro–economic assistance to the country of Ukraine
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DECISION?
  
It authorises the European Union to provide a maximum amount of €1.2 billion to Ukraine for the period from 1 January 2022 to the end of the second quarter of 2022.
KEY POINTS
The EU’s assistance is based on economic policy conditions, to be set out in a memorandum of understanding (MOU) with the Ukrainian authorities.
The aim of the assistance is to:
support the economic stabilisation and substantive reform agenda of Ukraine;
improve the efficiency, transparency and accountability of the public finance management systems in Ukraine; and
ensure the sustainable financing situation for Ukraine, thereby supporting its economic and social development;
contribute to the development of a sustainable external financing situation;
provide the necessary financial resources for the implementation of the reform agenda;
promote the free movement of goods and services between the EU and Ukraine, in particular through the liberalisation of the internal market and the strengthening of the privatisation of state-owned enterprises (SMEs).
The European Commission is responsible for the provisioning of the EU macro‑financial assistance. The amount of provisioning must be consistent with the budgetary appropriations provided for in the multiannual financial framework for the EU.
A precondition for granting the EU assistance is that Ukraine respects democratic principles, human rights and respect for the rule of law. The European Commission regularly monitors the progress made by Ukraine in implementing the economic policy objectives of the MOU.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS DECISION APPLACEMENT APPLYEARLY ENTRY INTO FORCE?
The decision entered into force on 1 January 2021.
BACKGROUND
The economic situation in Ukraine has been affected by the recession in 2020, which was caused by the COVID-19 pandemic and by prolonged security threats at its border with Russia. The continuous build-up of uncertainty has resulted in a recent loss of confidence, negatively affecting the economic outlook, and, since mid-January 2022, in the loss of access to international capital markets.
For more information, see:
‘Economic and Financial Assistance to Ukraine’ on the European Commission's website.
MAIN DOCUMENT
 
  барка  на   хаканска (‘Emergency Macro–Financial Assistance’)
Council Decision (EU, Euratom) 2021/856 of 20 January 2021 on the provision of emergency macro-financing to Ukraine (OJ L 94, 1.2.21.2021, pp. 1-2)
last update 27.02.2022



Summary 82:
Mediterranean swordfish: multiannual recovery plan for swordfish (Xiphias gladius) in the Mediterranean Sea (Mediterranean Swordfish Regulation)
MEDIAN FRAMEWORKFISH REGULATION (EU) 2017/2107 — implementation of the Multiannual Mediterranean Swordfish Recovery Plan (MedMRS)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 1224/2009 on the implementation by the European Union of a multiannually-recovery plan for Mediterranean swordfish
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATIONS?
This regulation lays down general rules for the implementation of a Mediterranean Sea recovery plan adopted by the International Commission for the Conservation of Atlantic Tunas (ICCAT) starting from 2017 and continuing until 2031.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies in addition to the following Regulations or, where those Regulations so provide, by way of derogation therefrom:
Commission Delegated Regulation(EU) 2015/98 on the allocation of quotas for the fishing of swordfish in the European Sea (‘Mediterranean fishing quotas’);
Commission Implementing Regulation (EU)* 2017/2403 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the management of the Mediterranean fishing fleet (“Mediterranean fishery management measures”);
Delegated Regulations (EU, Euratom) No 1380/2013 on the application of the rules of Regulation (EC), Regulation (Euratom) and Regulation (EFSA) on the conservation of Atlantic tunas (see summary).
The purpose of the regulation is to ensure that EU countries’ fishing efforts are commensurate with the fishing opportunities available to them.
Each EU countries must use transparent and objective criteria, including those of an environmental, social and economic nature, and endeavour to distribute national quotas fairly among the various fleet segments, giving consideration to traditional and artisanal fishing, and to provide incentives to EU fishing vessels deploying selective fishing gear or using fishing techniques with reduced environmental impact.
EU countries must ensure that the fishing effort of fishing vessels flying their flag is commensurately with the opportunities available in the EU.
Fishing effort
Each year, each EU country must submit an annual fishing plan to the European Commission. This plan must include:
the number of vessels in the fleet;
the type of fishing gear used and the number of by-catches caught;
fishing effort of vessels flying its flag;
a description of the methods used to catch swordfish.
The Commission must publish an annual report on how EU countries are implementing this regulation.
FROM WHEN DO THE REGUMENTS APPLY?
   
 
The regulations apply from 1 January 2017.
BACKGROUND
The European Union is party to the International Convention for the Convention of the International Chamber of Commerce in the Law of the Sea (the ICCAT Convention) which aims to prevent the collapse of the stock of Mediterranean tunas.
For more information, see:
Mediterranean fish (European Commission).
MAIN DOCUMENT
  Ебарганска гранка 
Council Regulation (CE) No 652/2009 of 21 December 2009 on the Implementation by the Member States of the multannual Mediterranean recovery plan (MedmRS) adopted by ICCAT (OJ L 347, 23.12.2009, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (C) No 608/2009 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
                    Барканцана  харски 
Commission implementing regulation (EU), Euratom and Euratom Implementing Regulations (EURatom) 2018/2401, 2018/2301 and 2018/2501 concerning the management measures and control measures adopted by Member States for the Mediterranean fishery measures adopted in accordance with the Regulation on Mediterranean fishing quotas (Codified version) (Codification of the Regulations) (Official Journal L 287, 28.11.2018, p. 1)
Regulations (EC, EFSA) No 1308/2013, 2014/1380 and 2014/1580 on the European fishing fleet management measures, Regulation (EA) No 1482/2014 on the protection of the marine environment (Codication of the EU Fisheries Regulations) and Regulations (EC and EFSA Regulation) No 552/2014 and (EU).
Regulatory (EU)(EU) 2014/1482 on the control measures and measures applied by the Commission to ensure the conservation, management and conservation of the fisheries of the Atlantic Tuna (Codiculation of the Union Fisheries Regulations).
See consolidated version.
last update 14.02.2021



Summary 83:
Multiannual financial framework (MFF) for the period 2014-2020
Multiannional financial framework for the year 2014 to 2020
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 1234/2014 on the multiannual Financial Framework
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out the MFF’s budgetary ceilings for the years 2014-20.
The MFF covers the period from 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2020.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The framework covers:
the general budget of the European Union (EU);
the Cohesion Fund;
the Structural and Investment Funds (SIFs); and
the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGAF).
Cumulative budget appropriations
The general budget appropriations are:
€8.5 billion for 2014-2019;
€9 billion for 2020-2021; and
€10 billion for 2021-2022.
Special budgetary instruments
The European Stability Mechanism (SIGM), the Flexibility Instrument, the EGAF, the Contingency Margin, the specific flexibility to tackle youth unemployment and strengthen research, and the global margin for commitments for growth and employment, in particular youth employment.
In addition, the Commission may use special budgetary instruments, such as the emergency aid reserve, to cover short-term and medium-term budgetary needs.
Categories of budgetary appropriations
In order to ensure that the general budget does not exceed the ceilings set out in the regulation, budgetary appropriations are divided into the following categories:
general budgetary appropriations;
cohesion fund;
sIFs;
EGAFs;
contingency margin;
special budgetary instruments;
investment for growth, jobs and innovation;
research and innovation (R&I).
The General budgetary appropriations cover:
a maximum annual amount of €150 million (2011 prices);
a limit of €10 billion (2013 prices) for cohesion policy;
a ceiling of €7 billion (2014-2020) for investment for growth jobs and for youth employment;
an annual amount for research and innovation of €5 billion (2015 prices).
In accordance with Regulation (EC) No 2012/2002, the European Commission may also use the Emergency Aid Reserve (EAFR) to cover urgent needs arising from the end of the financial year.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
The regulation entered into force on 1 July 2014.
BACKGROUND
   
For more information, see:
The Multiannual Fiscal Framework (European Commission).
MAIN DOCUMENT
  Егранска ганка
Commission Implementing Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 1335/2014 of 1 January 2013 laying down the general budgetary framework of the Union (OJ L 127, 1.4.2014, pp. 1–2)
Successive amendments to Regulation (Euratom) have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
 
  IEC Implementing Decision 2014/852/EU of the Council of 11 December 2014 on the European Stability and Investment Fund (ESIF) and amending Council Regulations (EC, EC, EC) No 1/2006, (EC), (EC and EC) Nos. 1/2007, (EU), (EU and EU countries) and (EU countries) as regards the European Social Fund and the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (see summary).
  i.e. the European social fund.
last update 27.02.2021



Summary 84:
European Maritime and Fisheries Fund (EMFAF) 2021-2027 — priorities and eligibility rules
European Maritime & Fisheries Fund 2021-2020
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) 2021/1060 on the European Maritime and fisheries Fund
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out the priorities of the EMFAF, its budget and the specific rules for providing EU funding, complementing the general rules applicable to the EU’s Common Fisheries Policy (CFP).
KEY POINTS
The European Maritime Fund is one of the main instruments of the common fisheries policy (CPF). It aims to contribute to achieving the environmental, economic, social and employment objectives of the CFP, in particular the objectives of restoring and maintaining populations of harvested species above levels which can produce MSY, avoiding and reducing, as far as possible, unwanted catches and minimising the negative impact of fishing activities on the marine ecosystem.
It is funded by the European Union (EU).
The regulation sets out a simple architecture without predefining measures and detailed eligibility rules at EU level in an overly prescriptive manner. It does not apply to undertakings in the fishery and aquaculture sector.
The EMFF is managed under shared management by the EU countries. It is financed by EU Member States. The EMFF has a budget of €1.8 billion for the 2021-27 programming period.
Eligibility rules
Member States must ensure that the EMFF does not support overcapacity and overfishing in the fishing fleet, and that it does not contribute to illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing and to the introduction of new subsidies.
In addition, Member States are required to prohibit certain forms of fisheries subsidies which contribute to overcapacity, as well as to the prevention of unwanted catches, and to refrain from introducing new such subsidies. These include:
investments in selective fishing gear, in the improvement of port infrastructures and in the marketing of unwanted catch;
the purchase, installation and management of certain equipment for control purposes;
fishing fleet management and decommissioning of vessels;
investment in research and development of new fishing gear;
measures to reduce the risk of over-exploitation of marine life and to improve the management of the marine environment;
projects to promote the sustainable management of marine biological resources;
research and development activities in the fisheries sector by young fishers and the creation of new economic activities by young people.
Specific eligibility rules for certain other investments supported by the EMF are set out in the regulation. These cover:
the use of InvestEU (the European Union's investment programme for the sustainable development of the EU's fisheries sector),
community-led local development (CLLD) and for financial management.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
It entered into force on 1 January 2021.
BACKGROUND
   
The CFP is a key enabler for sustainable fisheries and the conservation of marine biodiversity, for food security through the supply of seafood products, for the growth of a sustainable blue economy and for the fulfilment of international commitments in the field of ocean governance.
For more information, see:
Fisheries policy (European Commission).
MAIN DOCUMENT
  Еъраланска гаранда барга 
Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2019/852 of 21 December 2019 laying down the priorities and specific rules of the European maritime and fisheries fund (the ‘EMFF’).
Successive amendments to the regulation have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
 
Regulations (EU), Euratom and Euratom Implementing Regulation (EC) No 552/2014 of the Council of 11 December 2014 establishing the European Regional Fisheries Fund, the European Fisheries Fund and the European Aquaculture Fund and repealing Council Regulation (Euratom) No 1380/2013 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2014, pp. 1-24)
See consolidated version.
Directive 2008/56/EC establishing the Community Fisheries Fund for the period 2008-2013 (see summary).
See summary.
Council Directive 2008/54/EC of 22 December 2008 establishing the Common Fisheries Plan for the duration of the period 2009-2013.
last update 04.02.2021(1) The United Kingdom withdraws from the EU and becomes a third country.



Summary 85:
Conservation and management measures for tropical tunas and bigeye tuna in the Pacific Ocean
Convention area of the Inter-American Tropical Tuna Commission (IATTC)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) 2017/2403 on the conservation and management of the fishery resources in the Convention area of IATTC
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out the rules for the implementation of the International Convention on the Conservation and Management of Straddling Fish and Highly Migratory Fish Stocks (ICCST) and the measures adopted within the framework of that Convention.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to all fishing vessels operating in the International Area of the Convention for the Conservation of Tropical Tunas (ITCST). This area is the part of the Pacific ocean bounded by the following lines: the 50°S parallel from its intersection with meridian 150°W until the intersection of meridian 130°W, and the 4°N parallel from the intersection with 150°S until the convergence of meridians.
It does not apply to:
purse seine vessels;
tuna fishing vessels; and
scientific research vessels.
EU countries must inform the European Commission by 15 June each year of which of the two closure periods from 29 July to 8 October, or from 9 November to 19 January, shall be applicable to their vessels. The Commission must assess and, where applicable, forward a request for a reduced closure period of 40 consecutive days the following year.
The Commission must forward the request to the IATCategories of fishing vessels:
Tuna:
bigeye tuna
tropical tunaspirate tunas
turtle mortality
sharks
white shark
shark mortality
white pelagic.
European Union fishing vessels may not operate within one nautical mile of a data buoy, provided that those vessels do not interact with the data buoy or deploy fishing gear, as set out in paragraphs 1 and 2.
Fishing closure periods
Each year, each EU country must notify the Commission of the fishing closure for tuna.
If a vessel has already observed a closure period in the same year during which the cause of the force majeure occurred, it must observe a reduced closed period for that year, to be notified to the Commission no later than 15 July of that year. If, however, the vessel has not observed a closed period during the previous year, it has observed one of the following years, it shall observe a reduction closure period:
40 consecutive days for tuna;
30 days for sharks
40 days for pelagic tuna
10 days for shark mortality.
In addition, EU countries must submit data on:
the number of sharks and pelagic sea mammals caught in the ITCST;
the total number of marine mammals caught and killed;
captures and transshipments of sharks, pelagic marine mammals and sea turtles;
dead or alive sharks and sea mammals;
fishing vessels that have surrendered their transhipments in the convention area;
transhipments of live sharks, sea mammals and marine reptiles;
sea mammals and seabirds that have been captured and transhipment of live sea mammals, marine reptiles and marine invertebrates;
all sea mammals that have not been caught or transhipmed in the ICTCST.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
The Regulation has applied since 15 June 2017.
BACKGROUND
   
The ICTCT is an inter-governmental organisation established by the United Nations Convention of 10 December 1982 on the Law of the Sea and the Agreement for the Implementation of That Convention relating to the Conservation, Management of Staddling and Highly Migration Stocks.
For more information, see:
Inter-American tropical tuna Commission
Tropical tuna (Inter-Tuna Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Tuna: a species of tuna caught by a purse seine fishing vessel.
* Tropical tunas: a fish that can be caught by the vessel, its owner or its operator.
Turtle mortality: the mortality of sea turtles.
Black sea turtle: a sea turtle that is killed by a vessel that has been caught and transhipped.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2018/2301 of 15 June 2018 on the protection of the marine life of the European Union (OJ L 347, 15.6.2018, pp. 1-2)
Successive amendments to Regulation (Euratom) No 2301/2018 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 14.02.2021



Summary 86:
Better law-making in the European Union: Joint declaration of the European Parliament, the Council, the European Commission and the European Economic and Social Committee (Joint declaration on annual interinstitutional programming)
Better Law-Making in the EU: Joint Declaration on annual and multiannual programming
SUMMARY OF:
Decision (EU) 2017/852/EU — Joint declaration on the EU’s annual programming
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DECISION AND THE JOINT DECISION?
The decision establishes a framework for closer cooperation between the three European Union institutions (European Parliament, European Council, European Parliament and European Commission).
The joint declaration sets out the principles and objectives of the agreement.
KEY POINTS
The three institutions agree to reinforce the EU's annual programming in line with Article 17(1) of the Treaty on European Union (TFEU) which entrusts the Commission with the task of initiating annual programmes.
The Commission work programme will include major legislative and non-legislative proposals for the following year, including repeals, recasts, simplifications and withdrawals of existing legislation. The initiatives will be accompanied by an impact assessment. The Commission will also consult the public and stakeholder bodies before adopting a proposal.
In addition, the three institutions will set up, at the latest by the end of 2017 and in close cooperation, a joint functional register of delegated acts, providing information in a well-structured and user-friendly way, in order to enhance transparency, facilitate planning and enable traceability of all the different stages in the legislative process.
the Commission will inform the European parliament and the Council of its plans for the implementation of delegated or implementing acts.
Every year, the institutions will exchange views on initiatives for the coming year and agree on a joint declaration, to be signed by the Presidents of the three Institutions. This joint declaration will be updated in good time before adopting or revising its guidelines concerning their tools for Better Law-making (public consultations, impact assessments and ex-post evaluations).
Each institution will ensure that the Commission adopts a proposal in an open and transparent way, ensuring that the modalities and time-limits of those public consultations allow for the widest possible participation.
When the Commission submits a proposal for a delegated act, the institution concerned will be informed of the detailed reasons, and will provide, where appropriate, an analysis of possible alternatives and respond to any issues raised by the institutions. The European Parliament will take full account of the Commission's impact assessments when considering Commission legislative proposals.
As a general rule, the Commission will carry out its role as facilitator in facilitating the legislative dialogue between the institutions and will, where possible, include in that planning their requests for in-depth evaluation of specific policy areas or legal acts. It will also act as a consultative body for the public in the preparation of its proposals for delegated acts and for the adoption of its own work programmes. The institutions will also cooperate on the preparation and implementation of Commission work programmes and joint declarations.
A Joint Political Declaration of 27 October 2011 on explanatory documents will be adopted on the basis of this joint declaration.
References
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Joint Declaration of 3 October 2017
3.10.2017
-
OJ L 127 of 3.10-
RELATED ACTS
Council Decision (EU, Euratom) 2016/856 of 27 September 2016 on the Commission Work Programme and Joint Declarations on the annual programming and on the joint declaration on Interinstitutional Programming of the 3 Institutions [Official Journal L 136 of 27.9.2016].
last update 04.02.2020



Summary 87:
Procedures and conditions for citizens’ initiatives (Regulation (EC) No 596/2004)
Procedues and conditions of citizens‘ initiatives (Recast)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation(EC) no 596 / 2004 on the procedures and conditions required for a citizens' initiative
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out the procedure and conditions to be followed by the organisers of citizens' initiatives (Citizens' Initiatives) in order to promote a European Union (EU) law.
Citizens’ Initiatives are the means by which the European Commission invites citizens to submit a proposal for a legal act of the EU for the purpose of implementing the Treaties similar to the right conferred on the European Parliament under Article 225 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and on the Council under Article 241 TFEU.
The aim of the regulation is to ensure that CIs are organised in such a way that they are transparent and that the information they provide to the Commission is up-to-date.
KEY POINTS
Organisers of CIs must:
register the initiative with the Commission, providing the information set out in Annex II, in particular on the subject matter and objectives of the initiative;
provide, for the register and where appropriate on their website, regularly updated information on the sources of support and funding for the proposed CIs;
ensure that the online collection system used for the purposes of a CIs complies with the requirements of this regulation;
collect the necessary statements of support from citizens;
present the initiative at a public hearing at EU level.
In order to ensure coherence and transparency in relation to CIs, it is mandatory to register such initiatives on a website made available by the Commission prior to collecting the necessary information from citizens. The organisers must complete the forms as indicated in Annex III prior to initiating the collection of statements of supporting from signatories. They must also provide the Commission with, where appropriate, information on:
the sources of funding;
the number of signatories;
a description of the CIs’ objectives.
Organisations must also ensure that the data they collect are not retained for a maximum of 2 years after the end of the period of collection.
EU countries must recognise the certificates issued by the competent authorities of other EU countries.
When the Commission receives a proposal from an initiative supported by the requisite number of signatures, the organisers are entitled to present that initiative at an EU level public hearing.
Where the Commission considers that the initiative does not meet the conditions laid down in the regulation, it may adopt a decision to withdraw the proposal.
FROM WHEN DOES THE REGULE APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 January 2004.
BACKGROUND
 
CITIZENS’ INITIATIVES
Citizen’s initiatives are the tools by which EU citizens have the right to participate in the decision-making process of the Commission.
For more information, see:
European Citizens’ Initiative (European Commission).
* KEY TERMS
* CITIZENATIVE: a citizen initiative which aims to promote an EU law, policy or initiative.
* ARTICLE 225: the right of the Member States to legislate on behalf of the Union and to adopt a law or a policy implementing that law or policy.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in Member States
Official Journal
Council Regulation (EC).
1.1.2004
-
OJ L 127, 1.2.2004, pp. 1-2.
RELATED ACTS
  i.e. Implementing Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 652/2003 of the Council of 11 December 2003 on the procedure for the preparation of a Citizens' Initiative and the submission of such an initiative and repealing Council Regulation No 598/2004 of 11 November 2003 (Official Journal L 96, 31.12.2003, p. 1).
last update 14.02.2016



Summary 88:
Statistical statistics on the placing on the market and use of pesticides
Statistical Statistics on the place on the markets and use thereof
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 223/2009 — statistical statistics on pesticides
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes a common framework for the systematic production of EU-wide statistics on pesticide sales and use.
It aims to provide up-to-date statistics on sales and the use of pesticide products in the EU.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation covers substances listed in Annex III contained in pesticides which are plant protection products, as defined in Directive 2009/128/EC.
EU countries must provide the European Commission (Eurostat) with reports on the quality of the data transmitted as referred to in Annexes I and II of the regulation, as well as on the burden on businesses, agricultural holdings and national administrations and the usefulness of these statistics in the context of the Thematic Strategy on the Sustainable Use of Pesticides in particular with regard to the objectives set out in Article 1.
Quality report
Each EU country must supply Eurostat with a quality report indicating:
the methodology used to collect data,
relevant aspects of quality according to the methodology used,
a description of estimations, aggregations and exclusion methods used, and
the usefulness of the statistics for statistical purposes.
The data are used by national authorities and by Eurostat exclusively for the statistical purposes, in accordance with Article 20 of Regulation (EU) No 1166/2008 on farm structure surveys and the survey on agricultural production methods.
the confidential data are published on the Internet.
References
Act
Entry into force
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal of the European Parliament and of the Council
Directive 2009/127/EC
1.1.2009
-
OJ L 127 of 1.2.2009.
Amending act(s)
Council Regulation (EEC) 2019/852 of 22.3.2019 amending Decision 1999/468/EC of 28 June 1999 laying down the procedures for the exercise of implementing powers conferred on the Commission.
Last updated: 27.07.10.2019



Summary 89:
EU rules on plant protection products — harmonised rules for active substances and placing on the market (Regulation (EC) No 1272/2008)
EU rules for plant protection substances — harmonized rules for the approval of active substances
SUMMARY OF:
Implementing Regulation (EU) 2016/852 on the harmonisation of rules on the authorisation of plant protection* products
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to harmonise EU rules on:
the authorisation, monitoring and control of plant-protection products;
the application of the regulation;
records and information on the use of these products.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to:
active substances* and adjuvants* intended for the protection of plants or plants’ health and the environment;
safeners* and synergists* intended to enhance plant protection;
plants used for minor uses.
It does not apply to micro-organisms.
Authorisations
EU countries must grant authorisations to active substances, safeners or synergists. The regulation sets out a procedure for granting these authorisations. It also lays down rules for:
granting a parallel trade permit;
grants authorisations for products placed on the EU market.
The authorisation procedure is based on the precautionary principle. It is designed to ensure that active substances* do not adversely affect human or animal health or the environment.
In exceptional cases, EU countries may also apply the comparative assessment when granting authorisation.
the results and costs of tests and studies on animals should be shared between EU countries.
animal health and animal welfare rules
the rules on record-keeping and information about plant protection must be kept for at least 5 years.
EU Member States must ensure that:
there is no duplication of authorisations between Member States;
there are no restrictions on the import and export of products from one Member State to another.
Member States have the possibility of recovering the costs associated with the application of this regulation from those seeking to place, or placing, active substances.
Where identical plants or products are authorised in different Member States, a simplified procedure is provided for in this regulation, in order to facilitate the trade between them of such products. This procedure is known as the ‘parallel trade permit’.
Exemptions
Certain substances which are not predominantly used as plants protection products may be of value for plants protection, but the economic interest of applying for approval may be limited. These substances are excluded from the scope of this Regulation. The Commission may, however, grant authorisation to these substances if they are of value to plant protection.
References
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Directive 2008/16/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 2008 on the approval, monitoring, control and monitoring of plant Protection Products (OJ L 347, 18.12.2008, pp. 1-8)
last update 04.02.2019



Summary 90:
Internal market information system (IMI)
Internal market Information System (IME)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 552/2011 on the establishment of the Internal Market Information System
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes a communication tool for administrative cooperation between competent authorities of the European Union (EU) Member States and between the European Commission and the European Economic Area (EEA).
It sets out the rules and procedures for the exchange of information, including personal data, between EU countries and the Commission.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to:
administrative cooperation between the competent authorities* of the Member States;
the Commission and EU countries’ competent authorities in the field of the implementation of EU acts in the area of the internal market.
It does not apply to administrative cooperation* between the EU countries or between the Commission and non-EU countries, unless a Union act provides for a role for the Commission in such cooperation.
Exchange of personal data
Personal data may be exchanged as part of administrative cooperation within IMI, unless the Commission has access to personal data.
The processing of data is subject to all relevant safeguards, including the protection of the personal data of the data subjects and the confidentiality of confidential information.
EU countries must ensure that:
personal data is processed only for the purpose for which it was originally collected and for the purposes for which the information was exchanged;
data subjects have the right of access to their personal data;
information exchanged is processed in accordance with the security and confidentiality requirements of the EU acts;
all personal data are protected.
National coordinators
Each Member State appoints a national coordinator to act as a coordinator for IMI. The coordinator is responsible for:
coordinating IMI activities;
ensuring the proper functioning of IMI;
monitoring the use of the system by IMI coordinators;
preparing and disseminating information on administrative cooperation or mutual assistance in the EU;
organising training and awareness-raising initiatives;
providing information to the general public on the IMI system.
Implementation of the regulation
The Commission must adopt an implementing act to determine which EU acts are subject to a pilot project and on the modalities of that pilot project, in order to ensure that the pilot project reflects the needs of the users and that the rules on processing of the information exchanged are fully complied with.
In addition, the Commission must monitor the performance of Member States regarding the effective application of this regulation based on statistical data from IMI and any other relevant data. It must also report to the European Parliament and the Council every year on IMI’s functioning.
Role of the Commission
The European Commission may appoint one or more coordinators for each Member State to carry out IMI tasks. These coordinators must be independent from the national coordinators and must:
carry out the tasks of the national coordinator;
act as liaisons between the coordinators of the different Member States, and with the Commission;
notify the Commission of any changes to IMI procedures and procedures;
coordinate the work of the coordinator and the national IMI coordinator.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULATIONS APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 January 2011.
BACKGROUND
 
  IMI is the main communication tool used by EU countries to exchange information on the EU internal market, which is not open to the public. In particular, IMI helps competent authorities to identify their counterpart in another Member State, to manage the information exchange on the basis of simple and unified procedures and to overcome language barriers.
For more information, see:
‘Implementing Regulation (Euratom)’ on the Commission's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Administrative cooperation: administrative cooperation in the context of an EU act, i.e. the cooperation of EU countries, between the authorities of those countries, and between national authorities and the EU Commission, to implement that EU act.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member State
Official Journal
Commission Implementing Act
1.1.2011
-
OJ L 127, 1.2.2011, pp. 1-8
RELATED ACTS
 			
Commission Communication of 21 February 2011 entitled ‘Better governance of the Single Market through greater administrative cooperation: A strategy for expanding and developing the Internal market information System (‘IMI’).
Communication from the Commission to the Parliament, the Council, the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions: Towards a European Union Information System for Administrative Cooperation.
Commission Decision 2009/739/EC of 2 October 2009 setting out the practical arrangements for exchanging information by electronic means between Member States under Chapter VI of Directive 2006/123/EC on services in the internal



Summary 91:
Conservation, management, exploitation, monitoring, marketing and enforcement measures for fishery and aquaculture products established by the General Fisheries Commission for the Mediterranean (GFCM)
Conservation and management, management and monitoring of fishery products established in the Mediterranean and the Black Sea
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 1224/2009 establishing a Community control vessel for the application by the European Union of the conservation, management of the marine resources of the GFCM Agreement area
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It lays down the rules for applying by the EU of the Conservation, Management, Exploitation, Monitoring, Monitoring and Enforcement measures for the conservation and exploitation, exploitation and marketing measures established by:
the general fisheries commission for Mediterranean and Black Sea;
the European Union (EU) fishing fleet register.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to:
fishing vessels authorised to fish in the area referred to in Article 4 of the regulation;
fisheries restricted to certain species of fish (e.g. dolphinfish, hippena, echinoderms, molluscs, mussels, porpoises) and certain types of crustaceans (eel, anchovies, swordfish);
the EU fleet register number (EU Fleet Register number) for vessels registered in an EU Member State.
It does not apply to fishing operations conducted solely for the purpose of scientific investigations carried out under the authority of the Member State whose flag the vessel is flying and of which the Commission and the Member States in whose waters the research is carried out have been informed in advance.
Fisheries closed to fishing
Fishing in the closed season
Vessels are subject to a ban on the use of electronic fishing devices (i.e. electronic devices are prohibited).
The Commission must submit a report to the European Parliament and to the Council every year on the implementation of the rules of the fisheries restricted areas and the report on the carrying over of lost fishing days.
Information must be sent to the Commission in the form set out in the annex to the regulation. The Commission must ensure that the Commission, when preparing and drawing up delegated acts, transmits a simultaneous, timely and appropriate transmission of relevant documents to the EU Parliament and the Council.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
The Regulation has applied since 1 January 2010.
BACKGROUND
The agreement between the European Community and the European Economic and Social Committee (EEC) for the management of marine resources in the Black and Mediterranean Seas, known as the Mediterranean Fisheries Convention, was signed in 2006.
For more information, see:
General Fisheries Commission (European Commission).
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EC), Euratom, Euratom and European Parliament of 20 November 2009 establishing the Community control Vessels for the Conservation and Management of the Marine Resources of the Mediterranean Agreement area (OJ L 347, 20.11.2009, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Council Regulation (Euratom, EEC, EESC, EUSC) No 1024/2009 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
Council Implementing Regulation (EU, Eurat) No 652/2009 of 20 October 2009 establishing a European Community system to prevent, deter and eliminate illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing and repealing Council Regulations No 1005/2008 and No 1006/2008 of 29 September 2008 establishing a system for the prevention, determent and elimination of illegal fishing.
last update 14.01.2020



Summary 92:
Unitary patent protection in the EU: European patent with unitary effect (until 31 December 2020)
Unitary Patent protection in Europe: European Patent with Unitary Effect (until31 December 2023)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 1260/2012 on the creation of unitary patent protection
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to create uniform patent protection throughout the European Union (EU).
It establishes the European Patent Organisation (EPO).
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to patents granted by EU countries.
The EPO decides whether a patent is to be granted as a national patent or as a European patent.
EU countries must ensure that the EPO grants a patent to a patent applicant with the same set of claims as national patents.
A European patent is granted in its entirety and in all EU countries, regardless of the applicant’s place of residence or place of business. The EPO determines the number of EU countries covered by the regulation.
In the pre-grant phase, the applicant must submit a request for patent protection to the EU country in which the patent was granted. This request must be submitted within 1 month of the date of publication of the mention of the grant in the European patent Bulletin. The applicant must provide a copy of the patent application and the relevant documentation.
Where a patent has been granted in a non-EU country, it is considered not to have taken effect on their territory as a patent, so as to avoid any duplication of patent protection.
If a patent does not take effect on the territory of an EU country, the patent may be licensed in return for appropriate consideration.
Patent proprietors must pay a single annual renewal fee for a patent. The amount of the renewal fee is determined by the EU countries’ laws on patents. The distribution of the fees is based on:
the number of patents granted in the participating EU countries;
the frequency of patent applications; and
the level of patenting activity in each participating EU country.
FROM WHEN DOES THE REGULE APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 December 2012.
BACKGROUND
The European Patent Convention (EPC) sets out the rules for the application of the EPC to patents. It also provides for the establishment of a Unified Patent Court to hear cases concerning the patent, to ensure consistency of case-law and hence legal certainty, and cost-effectiveness for patent proprietors.
For more information, see:
‘Unitary patents’ on the European Commission's website.
* KEY TERMS
* European patent: a patent granted by one EU country to one patent applicant in another EU country for the purpose of conferring patent protection on the same object of property (i.e. the same product or service).
* Unitary patent: any patent granted in accordance with the rules of the EU Patent Convention.
MAIN DOCUMENT
 
  наскабрака гарка
Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 1160/2013 of 21 December 2012 on the establishment, on the basis of Article 5 of the Treaty on European Union, of the unitary protection of patents and repealing Regulation (EC) No 652/2006 (OJ L 347, 24.12.2013, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (Euratom) no 1160 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 30.02.2021



Summary 93:
European Observatory on Infringements of Intellectual Property Rights (EOSI)
European Observatory On Infringings of Intellectual Product Rights (OOSI)*
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 552/2011 establishing a European Observatory on infringements of intellectual property rights
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
   
 
It establishes the European Observatory (OESI) which is responsible for collecting, analysing and disseminating relevant objective, comparable and reliable data on the value of intellectual intellectual property (IP) rights and infringements, identifying and promoting best practices and strategies to enforce IP rights, and raising public awareness of the impact of infringements.
KEY POINTS
The OESI’s tasks are to:
organise, administer and support the gathering of experts, authorities and stakeholders assembled under the name ‘the Observatory’;
facilitate the activities of national authorities, the private sector and the European Union institutions relating to the enforcement of IP rights and in particular their activities in the fight against counterfeiting and piracy.
The Observatory is composed of:
representatives from the public administrations, bodies and organisations in the EU countries;
private-sector representatives.
In addition, the Observatory organises meetings consisting of representatives of national trade mark offices and the internet intermediaries.
It also organises, in consultation with the Member States, programmes for the provision of technical assistance to third countries as well as developing and delivering specific training programmes and events for officials from third countries who are involved in the protection of IP.
Assembled by the Observatory, the OOSI collects, analyses and disseminates relevant objective and comparable data on:
the value of IPs;
the infringements that occur; and
the impact of these infringements on the economy and society.
Each year, the Office adopts an annual report on the implementation of its tasks. The report is based on the information it has collected and on the opinions of the experts and the stakeholders it has consulted.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
The regulation has applied since 1 January 2012.
BACKGROUND
The EU has adopted a number of measures to protect intellectual property. These include:
a legal basis for the involvement of the Office for Harmonization in the Internal Market (Trade Marks and Designs) in enforcement-related activities;
a European anti-counterfeiting and anti-piracy plan.
For more information, see:
‘The European Observatory for Intellectual Property Enforcement’ on the European Commission's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Intellectual property rights: the legal rights that make it possible for a person, organisation or business to make a product or service available to the public, including trademarks, trade marks and designs.
ACT
Commission Regulation (EU) No 550/2011 of 1 January 2011 establishing a Community Observatory on infringement of intellectual Property Rights and amending Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 652/2010 (OJ L 127, 1.2.2011, pp. 1-18)
RELATED ACTS
Council Resolution of 25 September 2008 on a comprehensive European Anti-Counterfeiting & Anti-Piracy plan (COM(2008) 796 final - Not published in the Official Journal).
Council Communication of 25 May 2010 on the future revision of the Trade Mark system in the European EU (COM (2010) 797 final - not published).
last update 04.02.2021



Summary 94:
Safeguarding the EU’s economic interests in international trade agreements
Safer trade agreements: measures to safeguard the EU's economic interests
Sovereignty of the European Union
The European Union (EU) has adopted a series of measures to protect its economic interests against breaches by non-EU countries of international trade rules which affect its interests.
ACT
Council Regulation (EC) No 552/2006 of 22 December 2006 on the protection of the Union’ s economic interests under international trade agreement safeguards
SUMMARY
WHAT DOES THIS REGULATION DO?
It establishes a procedure for the European Commission to adopt implementing acts determining the appropriate commercial policy measures in the event of breaches of the rules of the International Trade Agreement on Safeguards (ITA) and the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT).
It aims to ensure that the EU is able to react swiftly and in a flexible manner in the context of the procedures and deadlines set out by the agreements which it has concluded.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to:
any country or separate customs territory which applies a safeguard measure* to goods imported from the EU;
any EU country which is a party to the WTO Agreement on Trade in Goods and Services (TISA);
any contracting authorities, entities or categories of contracting authorities or entities which have a commercial presence within the EU, i.e. that country and in the territory of which the legal person is engaged in substantive business operations;
services provided through a commercial relations with a third country;
the imposition of a mandatory price penalty on tenders of suppliers of goods or services originating in the third country concerned.
It does not apply to the following:
the import of goods originating in and operating in the EU from a non-member country, or a contracting authority or entity that has a direct link with the EU country concerned; or
the provision of a service provided by a service provider to a third party.
Exceptions
The Commission may adopt measures in cases where:
there is a breach of the WTO agreement on trade in goods and services;
a modification of the trade-enhancing measures adopted by a WTO Member State;
an extension of the validity of the safeguard measures adopted under the TISA;
where there is an increase in the level of nullification or impairment of the benefits accruing to the EU under an international agreement.
Where action is necessary, the Commission adopts an implementing act determining the measures to be taken. These measures may include:
a suspension of the application of a safeguard and a proportionate adjustment of the measures;
suspension or withdrawal of the concessions of the Member State concerned;
restructuring concessions or other obligations in the trade relations with third countries, when the treatment accorded to goods from the Union is altered in a way that affects the Union's interests;
implementing measures to ensure the maintenance of a substantially equivalent level of concessions and other obligations between the exporting Member States and the importing Member States, which would be affected by such a measure.
Implementing acts are adopted by the Commission no later than 3 years after the first instance of its implementation or 5 years from its date of entry into force, whichever is the earlier. The Commission may review the scope, functioning and efficiency of the regulation, including possible measures relating to intellectual property rights and additional measures concerning services.
FROM WHEN DO THE REGULATIONS APPLY?
The Regulation has applied since 1 January 2007.
BACKGROUND
   
For more information, see:
International trade agreements and safeguards (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* International trade agreement: any trade agreement between the EU and any country or a customs territory.
* Safeguard measures: measures adopted to protect the EU against breaches of international rules.
MAIN DOCUMENT
 
  Егародна на барканска ганка (OJ L 347, 23.12.2006, pp. 1-11)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EEC) no 552 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 25.02.2021



Summary 95:
Safeguarding the EU banana sector
Safer measures for the protection of the EU’s banana sector from serious harm from imports from Central America (Agreement on the stabilisation of trade between the EU and Central America)
Agreement of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2012 on the establishment of a European Union (EU) Banana Stabilisation Mechanism.
ACT
Council Decision 2012/852/EC of 29 June 2012 on implementing the Agreement on the implementation of the Stabilization of Trade between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the countries of the Central American Economic Area (CARA) on the other part.
SUMMARY
WHAT DOES THE AGREEMENT DO?
The agreement establishes a mechanism to prevent serious harm to the Union banana growing sector which is of great importance to the agricultural producers of many of the outermost regions in the EU.
The aim of the agreement is to:
ensure that the Commission adopts appropriate safeguard measures in the event of an increase in imports of bananas from the CARA;
establish a mechanism for the temporary suspension of the preferential customs duty established for bananas;
implement measures to prevent a negative impact on the EU market for bananas.
KEY POINTS
The Commission must:
monitor the observance by Central America of the social and environmental standards laid down in the agreement;
monitor imports from CARA countries of bananas and those sectors to which monitoring has been extended;
assess the impact of increased imports on the banana sector;
make a determination of the existence of a threat of serious injury, based on verifiable facts and not merely on an allegation, a conjecture or a remote possibility.
Importers must provide the Commission with all information it considers necessary to make a determination with regard to the conditions set out in Article 2(1), and, where appropriate, verify that information.
An investigation must precede the application of any safeguard measure, subject to the Commission being allowed to apply provisional safeguard measures, in critical circumstances as referred to in Article 106 of the Agreement.
In the event that there is a surge of imports concentrated in one or several EU countries, or in an outermost region, the Commission may also initiate a proceeding, provided that the conditions for initiation are met, in accordance with Article 5(5). The Commission must present an annual monitoring report to the EU Parliament and to the Council on updated statistics on imports from Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua, Guatemala and Panama.
If the Commission considers that the import of the product concerned is likely to cause serious injury to the sector, it must adopt definitive safeguard measures. These safeguard measures are based on a number of factors, including:
the rate and amount of imports;
the share of the domestic market taken by increased imports and changes in the level of sales, production, productivity, capacity utilisation, profits and losses, and employment.
Provisional safeguard measures may be adopted in the case of a surge in imports from one or more EU countries or in the outerest regions, or if there is sufficient prima facie evidence that they are likely to have a serious adverse effect on the situation of the sector. These measures must be adopted within 1 month of receipt by the Commission of a request or information pursuant to paragraph 1.
Stabilisation mechanism
The stabilisation mechanism for bananas is based on the following principles:
an advisory procedure must be used for the adoption of surveillance and provisional measures given the effects of those measures and their sequential logic in relation to the adoption.
It must be possible for the Commission to adopt implementing acts for temporary suspension or elimination of preferential customs duties for bananas, or to determine that such temporary suspension is not appropriate. It must also be possible to suspend or eliminate the tariff on imports originating in a non-EU country.
Where the Commission determines that the measures are not appropriate, it may adopt a decision to terminate or eliminate a tariff on the import or export of a product originating in an EU country. The decision must be communicated to the other EU countries and the EU countries’ competent authorities.
A non-confidential file must be kept in a secure location. The Commission shall, as soon as the necessary technical framework is in place, ensure password-protected online access to this file.
FROM WHEN DOES THE DECISION APPLY?
It has applied since 1 January 2012.
BACKGROUND
   
 
The EU banana industry is one of the most important agricultural producers in the world and is particularly vulnerable to serious damage caused by imports from the region.
For more information, see:
Bananas (European Commission).
MAIN DOCUMENTS
  i.e. Implementing Regulation (EC) No 852/2012 on the adoption by the European Commission of implementing acts pursuant to Article 106(1) of the Agreements on the Implementation of the Stability of Trade within the Community of the Member States



Summary 96:
European Account Preservation Order (EACPO)
European Account Protection Order (ECO)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 652/2009 on the European Account Preservation order
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
   
 
It aims to ensure that the European Union (EU) has a uniform procedure for the preservation of bank accounts and debtors’ assets.
KEY POINTS
Creditors can apply for a ‘preservation order’ to prevent the transfer or withdrawal of funds held by a debtor in a bank account maintained in an EU country if there is a risk that, without such a measure, the subsequent enforcement of their claim against the debtor will be impeded or made substantially more difficult.
The procedure for a creditor wishing to secure the enforcement of a later judgment on the substance of the matter must be established prior to initiating proceedings on the matter and at any stage during such proceedings.
A creditor may apply for an EACPO if he is a consumer domiciled in one EU country and the bank account concerned by the order is maintained in another EU country.
Where a creditor applies for a preservation order, jurisdiction to issue the order lies only with the courts of that EU country, even if the creditor applies at the same time for a Preservation Order which concerns an account or accounts maintained in a non-EU country. The court dealing with the application for the order must be located in the same EU country as the court issuing the order.
In addition, the creditor must provide security so that the creditor can be compensated at a later stage for any damage caused to him by the preservation order. The amount of the security must be determined by the court in the absence of specific evidence as to the amount of potential damage.
Liability of the creditor
The creditor is liable to the creditor where the damage caused is due to fault on the creditor’s part. However, the EU countries may maintain or introduce in their national law grounds for liability other than those specified in this regulation.
Implementation of the regulation
EU countries must ensure that:
the order is transmitted to the court of the EU country of origin and served on the debtor;
the debtor is served with the order by the competent authority of the country of enforcement;
any amendments to the order are transmitted as soon as possible;
all documents and information transmitted by the creditor are translated into the language of the applicable EU country;
there is no obligation for the creditor to provide any additional information.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
The regulation has applied since 1 January 2010.
BACKGROUND
The European Commission launched a consultation in 2006 on the need for a uniform European procedure for preserving bank accounts.
For more information, see:
‘Preservation Order’ on the Commission's website.
MAIN DOCUMENT
 			
Council Regulation (EC), No 653/2009 of 21 December 2009 on the application of the European Bank Preservation Order to the Court of Justice of the Member States in respect of the attachment of accounts (OJ L 127, 24.12.2009, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Council Regulation (EEC, No 654/2009 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
		````	
Report from the Commission to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions on the implementation of the Regulation on the Accession of the Bank of the Community to the Treaty on the Functioning of the Union and on the protection of European Bank Accounts (COM(2014) 596 final of 30.11.2014)
last update 30.02.2016



Summary 97:
Border surveillance of the sea borders by border guards operating under the coordination of the European Border Surveillance System (Eurosur) (SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 1052/2013 — coordination of border surveillance operations at sea
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes the European Union Agency for the Coordination of Border Surveillance of the Sea (EASA).
It sets out the rules for border surveillance at sea.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to:
border surveillance operations conducted by EU countries and Eurosur;
operational cooperation between EU countries, Eurosur and non-EU countries.
It does not affect the responsibilities of search and rescue authorities, including for ensuring that coordination and cooperation is conducted in such a way that the persons rescued can be delivered to a place of safety.
Operational plan
The operational plan must include specific information on the application of the relevant jurisdiction and legislation in the geographical area where the joint operation, pilot project or rapid intervention takes place, including references to EU and international law regarding interception, rescue at sea and disembarkation.
EU countries and the Agency must comply with norms and standards at least equivalent to those set by EU law.
The Agency may cooperate with the competent authorities of third countries, in particular as regards risk analysis and training, and should facilitate operational cooperation between Member States and third countries. The Agency may also cooperate with non-European Union countries, such as the United Kingdom (United Kingdom (1) and Switzerland.
Rights of migrants and asylum seekers
The European Union countries must respect human dignity, fundamental rights and the rights of migrants, including the principle of non-refoulement and the right to an effective remedy.
In addition, the Agency is responsible for:
the protection of personal data,
the right to asylum and to protection against removal and expulsion,
non-discrimination, and
the rights of the child.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
  
It entered into force on 1 January 2014.
BACKGROUND
The purpose of the regulation is to strengthen the information exchange and operational cooperation on border surveillance.
For more information, see:
Border surveillance (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Operational surveillance: a border surveillance operation in which border guards are deployed to monitor the borders of an EU country to prevent illegal border crossings, to counter cross-border criminality and to apprehend or take other measures against those persons who have crossed the border in an irregular manner.
* Interception: the interception of a person attempting to cross an irregular border.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Commission Implementing Decision 2014/852/EU
1.1.2014
-
OJ L 136 of 1.1-2.2014.
RELATED ACTS
Commission Regulation (EC) No 562/2006 of 6 December 2006 establishing the European border surveillance system (EuroSur) (OJ C 202, 7.12.2006, pp. 1-8)
last update 14.02.2016



Summary 98:
EU funding for the area of freedom, security and justice (2014-20) (European Union specific regulation)
EU funding to the area for the development of freedom and security (2014 - 20)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 laying down general rules necessary for the implementation of specific Regulations relating to EU funding in the field of home affairs for the period 2014-20
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out general rules for implementing the specific regulations relating to the EU’s home affairs programme for the 2014 - 20 period.
It aims to ensure that EU funding is more efficient and better targeted if it is based on strategic multiannual programming, drawn up by each EU country in dialogue with the European Commission.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to all EU countries, except Denmark, Ireland and the European Economic Area (EEA).
Eligible actions
Each EU country must submit to the Commission a national programme describing how it aims to achieve the objectives of the relevant specific regulation for the EU funding period 2014 -20. It must also provide a description of the measures it intends to take to achieve these objectives.
The European Commission must review the programme every 2 years and, if necessary, issue a report to the European Parliament and the Council on the progress made in achieving the programme objectives. The Commission must also review the implementation and the quality of the programmes every 3 years.
EU countries must ensure that:
the national programmes are managed and implemented by the competent authorities;
the information and communication measures are available to the public and the general public;
there are regular audits carried out by the Commission, the European Court of Auditors and European Anti-Fraud Office (EAFO).
The Commission has powers and responsibilities to verify the effective functioning of the management and control systems and to require Member State action to correct any infringements of EU or national law.
Specific Regulations
The Regulation sets out the general rules on the eligibility of EU funding for certain specific actions. These include:
emergency assistance for actions which were incurred before the application for such assistance was made, but not before 1 January 2014, in accordance with Article 18(4) of the Schengen acquis (‘OLAF’) which allows such assistance to be announced as well as unannounced;
measures to prevent, detect and respond to illegal immigration and border control.
In order to encourage financial discipline, it is appropriate to define the arrangements for decommitment of any part of the budget that is not in line with the principle of subsidiarity.
National programmes
Each year, the Commission and the EU countries must submit national programmes describing how they intend to implement their national programmes and the measures they will take to ensure the proper functioning of their programmes. The national programmes must be audited by the national authorities and the Commission in order to ensure their reliability and quality of information provided.
Each national programme must also contain detailed rules relating to information, communication measures and technical characteristics of such measures. These rules must be published on the Commission's website.
An annual accounting system must be in place for the annual clearance of accounts across the EU. This system must ensure the consistency of the accounts and the level of controls to be carried out.
Member States must:
ensure that the information they provide is accurate, reliable and up-to-date;
establish a website or website portal with the necessary information;
provide the Commission with all the information it needs to assess the effectiveness of the national programmes;
report regularly to the Council and the Parliament on the programme and its implementation.
If the Commission considers that the national programme is not being implemented correctly, it may require Member States to adopt measures to ensure its proper functioning.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULATIONS APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 January 2012.
BACKGROUND
 
  The European Union has adopted a number of specific regulations, including:
Directive 2014/20/EU establishing a European Union home affairs strategy (see summary);
Directives 2014/21/EU, 2014/22/EU and 2014/23/EU laying down specific rules for the application of the specific regulation;
Regulations (EU) No 852/2014, 2014-19/EU on the European Asylum and Migration Fund;
Council Regulation (EU), Euratom and Council Decision 1999/352/EC, ECSC and Euratom on the specific rules applicable to these specific regulations.
For more information, see:
European Union funding for home affairs (European External Action Service).
MAIN DOCUMENT
  i.e. Title V – Specific Regulation (Euratom, EEA) No 999/2012 of the Council of 21 December 2012 laying down the general provisions of the European Union specific regulations applicable to the Union funding programme (OJ L 347, 31.12



Summary 99:
EU Asylum and Migration Fund (EASF) (2013-2020)
EU asylum and migration Fund (2013 - 2020)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 439/2010 establishing the European Asylum and Migrations Fund
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets up a European Union (EU)-wide fund to support Member States in the field of immigration and asylum.
It aims to:
support Member States subject to particular pressure on their asylum systems;
contribute to the implementation of the Common European Asylum System;
provide financial support to voluntary burden-sharing operations agreed between Member States and consisting of the transfer of beneficiaries of international protection and of applicants for international protection from one Member State to another.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The EASF supports Member States’ efforts to improve their asylum and integration policies and systems.
The Fund is designed to provide financial support for the following policy areas:
integration measures;
reintegration of asylum seekers and their families;
transit assistance;
refugee resettlement programmes;
the transfer of refugees and displaced persons from one EU country to another;
cooperation with the European Union Agency for Migration and Integration (Eurojust);
the implementation of a Union Resettlement Programme.
Funding
The fund’s main objectives are:
to contribute to the effective functioning of the common European asylum system, which encompasses measures relating to policy, legislation, and capacity-building, while acting in cooperation with other Member States, EU agencies and non-EU countries;
in cooperation with the EASObligations (e.g. Eurojust).
to provide financial assistance to Member States for the integration of refugees, their families and their extended family members;
to help Member States to cope with the impact of the influx of irregular migrants.
In addition, part of the available resources under the Fund should also be distributed for specific actions which require cooperative effort amongst Member States. These include:
the establishment of a European Asylum Support Office;
supporting Member States' efforts to integrate refugees and asylum seekers into the labour market;
helping Member States deal with the effects of the refugee crisis;
assistance to the European Commission and the European Border and Coast Guard in the event of a mass influx of displaced persons.
Cooperation
Member States are encouraged to cooperate with each other in order to develop, implement, monitor and evaluate in general all immigration and integration strategies, policies and measures for third-country nationals, including EU legal instruments. Member States are also encouraged to take the necessary measures to protect the integrity of their immigration systems, in particular by:
ensuring that asylum-seekers are returned to their countries of origin;
promoting cooperation between the national authorities;
encouraging the exchange of information and best practice;
developing, implementing, monitoring and evaluating the integration measures of Member States;
exercising the capacity of national authorities to integrate asylum seekers.
Transfer of beneficiaries and applicants for protection
The European Union is committed to providing financial assistance for Member States that are subject to a heavy influx of refugees or displaced persons, as well as Member States which are under heavy pressure in the area of migration. The Fund also provides financial assistance in the case of mass influxes of displaced people. It is also important to ensure that the application of emergency assistance is consistent with and, where relevant, complementary to the EU's humanitarian policy and respects humanitarian principles as set out in the European Consensus on Humanitarian Aid.
Exemptions from the Fund
The Commission may, where appropriate, exclude certain Member States from receiving financial assistance under their national programmes, such as Cyprus and Malta, from the allocation of the Fund. The Commission may also exclude certain countries from receiving the Fund under its national programmes from the amount of financial assistance allocated to them under the EU Migration Fund. In addition, Member States may not exclude national authorities from receiving certain amounts of financial support under their respective national programmes for specific integration actions.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
The Regulation entered into force on 1 January 2011.
BACKGROUND
   
The EU has adopted a number of measures to support the migration and asylum policy of the EU, including:
establishing the European Migration Fund;
creating an Asylum and Integration Fund for the period 2013-2020.
For more information, see:
European Asylum Fund (European Commission).
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Commission Implementing Decision 2013/852/EU
1.1.2011
-
OJ L 136 of 1.1-2.2011.
RELATED ACTS
Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 852/2009 of 2 December 2009 establishing a European Fund for Migration, Refugees and Integration and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 552/2004



Summary 100:
Funding for the EU’s fight against transnational crime and terrorism: Multiannual Security Instrument (SIC)
Funding towards the fight against cross-border crime and terrorist threats
SIC
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 514/2014 establishing a multiannual security instrument for the European Union
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes a European Union instrument to combat transnational threats to the EU.
It aims to support the work carried out by EU countries’ competent authorities in order to protect people and goods from increasingly transnational security threats and to strengthen the capacity to react to security-related incidents or newly emerging threats.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The instrument applies to matters that are covered by the Justice programme, as set out in Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 1382/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council. It does not apply to matters covered by Article 4 of the Treaty on European Union (TEU) annexed to the TFEU.
The instruments are designed to:
support actions of particular interest to the Union (‘EU actions’);
provide emergency assistance and technical assistance;
contribute to the development of new technologies, transnational projects, networking and exchange of best practices;
monitor the implementation of relevant EU law and EU policies and actions in relation to and in non-EU countries;
encourage cooperation between Europol or other relevant EU bodies and EU countries.
promote the exchange of information and best practice;
develop cooperation between police cooperation, preventing and combating crime, crisis management and crisis management;
ensure the timely and appropriate transmission of relevant documents between EU countries and the European Commission.
Funds
The European Union budget allocated to the instrument is divided between the following areas:
emergency assistance
security-related actions
transnational projects
security measures
transborder projects
trans-national projects.
Implementation
The EU budget is divided into the following categories:
EU actions:
measures to combat terrorism and transnational organised crime;
measures in the field of police cooperation;
security actions to prevent and combat crime.
Transnational projects:
projects designed to protect the EU and its citizens from transnational terrorist threats;
projects in the area of transnational cooperation.
In addition, the instrument provides financial support for:
the establishment of a network of experts and experts in the fields of crime prevention and crime control;
the development of trans-border projects;
exchange of information on transnational transnational criminal threats and measures to protect EU citizens and goods;
cooperation between national authorities and Europol and other relevant European Union bodies and Member States.
EU countries are encouraged to use a part of the global resources available for the national programmes to address the strategic EU priorities set in Annex I to this regulation.
Monitoring
The Commission monitors the instrument, in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Regulation, with the aid of key indicators for evaluating results and impacts.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULATIONS APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 January 2015.
BACKGROUND
 
  The Internal Security Strategy for the Union adopted by the Council on 8-9 November 2010 aims at tackling the most important serious and organised criminal threats in the EU in a coherent and methodical manner through optimum cooperation between the relevant services.
For more information, see:
‘Fighting transnational terrorism’ on the European Council's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Transnational criminal threat: transnational threat: a threat to the safety and security of people, goods or property of an EU country or of a Member State.
MAIN DOCUMENT
  i.e. the instrument for combating transnational crimes and terrorism (OJ L 127, 1.1.2015, pp. 1-32)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EEC) No 529/2014 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 27.02.2016



Summary 101:
Non-sustainable fishing of stocks of common interest: EU action against non-EU action against countries allowing non-Sustainable fishing
Non-Sustainability of fisheries
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 596/2011 — measures to prevent, deter and eliminate illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing in fisheries involving a common interest stock
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to ensure that EU countries do not allow countries to fish the stocks of the common interest (i.e. stocks within which the size of a stock can replenish itself with high probability while allowing high yield fisheries on it).
It sets out the type of measures that may be taken with regard to countries allowing such fishing.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to:
fisheries involving a fishery involving a stock of interest to that country and to the EU;
fishing activities that jeopardise the sustainability of that stock, and fails to cooperate with other countries and the EU in its management;
non-EU countries with an interest in the fishery.
It does not apply to fishing in the waters of the Mediterranean, Black Sea or the Black Sea.
National authorities must notify the country concerned of the intention to identify it as a country allowing non sustainable fishing. The European Commission may adopt implementing acts determining whether the measures adopted in respect of the country are to apply to the country.
Implementing acts must be adopted in accordance with the conditions laid down in the regulation. The measures must be based on objective criteria and be equitable, cost-effective and compatible with international law.
The Commission must also establish an appropriate system for their enforcement by competent authorities.
Examination procedure
A committee composed of representatives of the Member States and chaired by the Commission is responsible for the implementation of the implementing acts adopted pursuant to this regulation.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
It entered into force on 1 July 2011.
BACKGROUND
   
The common fisheries policy of the European Union (now the EU) is based on the principle of ‘common interest’. This means that the EU and its Member States are required to cooperate for the conservation and management of marine resources. This cooperation may be established in the framework of regional fisheries management organisations (RFMOs) or, where RFMOs have no competence for the stock in question, by means of ad hoc arrangements among the countries having an interest.
For more information, see:
Common fisheries policy (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Common interest: a stock within which there is a high probability of the stock replenishing itself with a high yield.
* Non-EU country: a third country, including territories enjoying self-governing status and endowed with competencies in the area of conservation, management of living marine resources, that allows, without due regard to existing fishing patterns or the rights, duties and interests of other countries or the EU, fisheries activities that could jeopardise its sustainability.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member State
Official Journal
Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 540/2011
1.7.2011
-
OJ L 127 of 1.7, 2011
RELATED ACTS
Regulations (EC) No 1082/2009, (EC), (EU), (Euratom), (EC, EFTA) No 652/2009 and (EU).
Directive 2013/13/EU of the EU Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2013 on the implementation by Member States of the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by the European Commission of the exercise of implementing powers (OJ C 202, 28.3.2013, pp. 1-11)
Directives 2013/14/EU and 2013/15/EU on the management of the fisheries of the Common Fisheries Policy of the Union and on the coordination of measures for the prevention, determent and elimination of illegal and unreported fishing (Directive 2014/34/EU) (Directives 2014/35/EU, 2014/36/EU), 2014/37/EU (EU and Euratom).
Regulatory Regulation (ESP) No 1269/2013 of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and of its Parties to the Agreement establishing the World Trade Organisation on the protection of the marine environment (Directions 2013/24/EC, 2013/27/EC and 2014/38/EU). The Protocol on the Protection of the Marine Environment of the International Maritime Organization and the International Convention for the Protection and Management of Marine Protected Areas (Protocol on the Conservation of Marine Living Resources of the IUCN).
Commission Implementing Acts (EC).
Council Decision 2013/23/EU establishing a committee within the meaning of Article 8(2) of Regulation (EEC). The Committee is composed of representative of the



Summary 102:
Bilateral investment agreements between the EU and non-EU countries: transitional rules for the movement of capital between EU countries and non EU countries
Bilateral investments between the European Union (EU) and third countries
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 552/2013 on the application of Article 3(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU to bilateral investment agreements
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out the rules on the implementation of the TFEU’s Article 3 (bilateral investment agreement) and Article 9(1)(e) of Title V (the Treaty on European Union).
It aims to facilitate the negotiation, signing and conclusion of investment agreements with third countries.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to all EU countries that have signed a bilateral investment agreement with a non-European Economic Area (EEA) country between 1 December 2009 and 9 January 2013.
It does not apply to countries which have not yet entered into an agreement with the EU.
EU countries must notify the European Commission of any agreement they wish to maintain in force or permit to enter into force by 8 February 2013. The notification must include a copy of those agreements.
The notification must be transmitted at least 5 months before formal negotiations are to commence.
If the Commission considers that the agreement does not comply with the requirements of the regulation, it may authorise the EU country to amend an existing or to conclude a new agreement.
Authorisation to amend or conclude an agreement is granted by the Commission on the basis of a proposal from the country concerned. The proposal must be accompanied by a legislative proposal.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
  
The agreement entered into force must be notified to the Commission at least 8 months before the date on which it is due to come into force. The Commission must publish in the Official Journal a list of the agreements notified pursuant to Article 2, Article 11(6) or Article 12(6).
The Commission may decide to suspend, amend or terminate an agreement if it considers that it does not conform with the rules of Article 9 and/or V of the European Economic Area.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
From 1 January 2009.
BACKGROUND
The EU has exclusive competence with respect to the common commercial policy of the EEA countries. The regulation sets out transitional provisions for such agreements which have now come under the EU‘s exclusive competence.
For more information, see:
Investment agreements (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Bilateral Investment Agreement: an investment agreement between an EU country and a third country.
* Economic Area: an economic area in which a country is a party to an economic agreement with another EU country. It is an area of mutual interest for both parties.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 550/2013 of 8 January 2013 on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States with regard to the exercise of their exclusive competence in the fields of economic and financial matters between Member States and their Member States (OJ L 127, 9.1.2013, pp. 1-18)
Successive amendments and amendments to the regulation have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
Regulations (Euratom) 2015/852/EU of the Council and of the Representatives of the Governments of Member States meeting within the Council of 21 December 2015 laying down the conditions for the application, on the grounds of Article 4 of the Economic and Financial Union, of the Article 3 of the Treaties on Economic and Monetary Union (EEC) and on the mutual recognition of the principles of the International Monetary Fund and the World Trade Organisation (OEC) (OJC L 347, 21.12.2015, pp.)
Regulatory (EC), Euratom and Euratom Implementing Regulation (EURO) No 852/2014 of the General Assembly of 22 December 2014 on the harmonisation of the rules and procedures of the Union relating to the application and application of the Articles 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19 and 21, and repealing Council Regulation No 551/2003 (OJR L 347 of 21.11.2014, p. 1)
See consolidated version.
Directive 2014/34/EU on the establishment of a European Investment Bank for the period 2014-2020 and repealing Decision No 553/2003.
last update 04.01.2020



Summary 103:
Tariff preferences for sustainable development and good governance (SDRIVE FORWARD OF THE SCHEME
Trade preferences
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 552/2008 establishing a general tariff preferences scheme
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes a general arrangement for preferential trade preferences for developing countries.
It sets out the conditions under which the European Union (EU) grants tariff preferences to developing countries to help them diversify their trade with the EU.
KEY POINTS
The general arrangement applies for a period of 10 years from the date of application of the preferences provided for in this regulation, except for a special incentive arrangement for the least-developed countries, which should continue to be applied without any expiry date.
Beneficiaries of the general arrangement are:
low-income or upper-middle income countries;
high-income countries with per capita income levels allowing them to attain higher levels of diversification without the scheme’s tariff preferences.
Eligible countries
Countries that fulfil the eligibility criteria for the scheme can benefit from the additional tariff preferences if, upon their application, the Commission determines that the relevant conditions are met. A list of eligible countries is established in Annex I of the regulation.
The European Commission must report to the European Parliament and to the Council every 5 years on the effects of the scheme under this regulation and assesses the need to review the scheme. It must also take into account the situation of the beneficiary countries and take account of the fight against terrorism and the situation in the EU industries. The Commission may decide to suspend the temporary withdrawal of certain tariff preferences, taking account of international standards on transparency and exchange of information in tax matters.
Temporary withdrawal of tariff preferences
The tariff preferences may be temporarily withdrawn if a beneficiary country does not respect its binding undertaking to maintain the ratification and effective implementation of international conventions or to comply with the reporting requirements imposed by the respective conventions, or if it does not cooperate with the monitoring procedures as set out in this Regulation. The temporary withdrawal may also be suspended if the beneficiary country:
does not comply with its obligations under the relevant international conventions;
is not complying with the requirements of the relevant monitoring bodies established under those conventions; or
has not complied with the relevant reporting requirements of those conventions.
Implementation of the tariff preferences is governed by delegated acts adopted by the Commission. The regulation sets out a procedure for the adoption of implementing acts on suspension from the preferential preferences of certain GSP sections and on the initiation of a temporary withdrawal procedure.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
The regulation entered into force on 1 November 2008.
BACKGROUND
The General Trade Preferences Scheme (GSP) was established by the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) in 1979, under which WTO Members may accord differential and more favourable treatment to developing and developing countries in order to encourage trade in goods and services between them.
For more information, see:
‘Tariff Preferences’ on the European Commission's website.
* KEY TERMS
* General trade preferences: a preferential trade arrangement which allows the EU to grant preferential treatment to certain countries, such as developing countries, in the form of a quota or quota-based system, for goods imported into the EU from non-EU countries. These preferences are based on a number of factors, including:
the level of protection of intellectual property rights;
the quality of the products imported; and
the quantity of the goods imported.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Council Regulation (EC).
1.11.2008
-
OJ L 127 of 1.11 of the same day.
RELATED ACTS
Council Implementing Decision (EU, Euratom) 2018/852 of 27 June 2018 on the implementation of Council Regulation (EEC) no 552 of 8 November 2008 establishing a General Trade Preferential Arrangement for Sustainable Development and Good Govern (SDPG) (OJ C 202, 28.6.2018, pp. 1-2)
last update 27.02.2021



Summary 104:
Export authorisation and import and transit measures for firearms, their parts and essential components and ammunition for the purpose of implementing the United Nations Protocol against the Illicit Manufacturing of and Trafficking in Firearms, their Parts and Components and Ammunition (the UN Firearms Protocol)
Export authorisations and import & transit measures
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 428/2009 — rules governing export authorisation, and import, brokering and transit of dual-use items for firearms
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It lays down rules for the export of firearms and their parts, essential components, ammunition and ammunition to and from the EU.
It aims to implement Article 10(3) of the UN Protocol against Illicit Manufacture of and trafficking in Firearms.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to:
firearms manufactured after 1899;
deactivated firearms*;
antique firearms* and their replicas as defined in accordance with national legislation, provided that antique firearms do not include firearms manufactured before 1899.
Exports
The exporter is the person who has the power for determining the sending of the item out of the customs territory of the EU to or through non-EU countries. If no export contract has been concluded or if the holder of the contract does not act on its own behalf, the exporter must be the one of the persons responsible for sending it out.
Authorisation
An authorisation is required for:
the export of all firearms, parts and ammunition listed in Annex I of the regulation;
the transfer of firearms for civilian use within the EU,
the import of firearms to and through the EU and
the transit of firearms from non-European Union countries.
Importation
Importers must apply for authorisation from the competent authorities of the country where they are established and must submit a written application to the EU country in which the item is being exported. The application must be accompanied by:
a copy of the export contract;
a statement of the reasons for the authorisation;
procedures to be followed in the event of any objection to the granting of authorisation.
EU countries must consult the European Commission and the European Parliament and the Council before granting authorisation to an exporter.
The Commission may decide to issue an authorisation in writing or by electronic means. The Commission must inform the EU countries in writing of any objections it or they may have to granting such authorisations, which must bind the Member State which has granted it.
In addition, the Commission must:
inform the Member States in writing and in electronic form of the notification of the decision to grant authorisations;
ensure that the authorisations are valid for a period of 5 years;
notify the Commission of any amendments to the annexes to the regulation.
Transit
Imports and transit are subject to the same conditions as exports, except for the following:
transit must be authorised by the competent authority of the exporting Member State;
exports must not be carried out without the prior authorisation of the importing Member State.
If a Member State objects to the export or transit of a firearm, it must submit an objection within 20 working days of the import or transit. The exporter shall consult the other Member States and inform them of the reason for the objection. The Member States must also provide the Commission with all the relevant documents and information concerning the export and transit.
Member States must ensure that the consignee of the consignment is accompanied by a written declaration of the origin, destination and destination of the shipment. The consignment must also contain:
all the necessary documents and documents for the shipment;
all necessary documentation for the transit and export of the firearms;
any necessary documents, documents and technical documentation relating to the shipment of the firearm and the ammunition.
Annex II sets out the list of the items covered by the export authorisations. The regulation does not apply to the following items:
parts and ammunition;
firearm components;
ammunition;
non-firearm parts;
amphibious firearms.
Ammunition is subject to authorisation if it meets the following conditions:
it is in good condition;
it meets the requirements of the relevant national legislation;
there is no traceable traceability or traceability of the parts or ammunition; and
it does not contain any traceability, traceability and traceability measures.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
The Regulation has applied since 3 July 2009.
BACKGROUND
   
 
For more information, see:
The EU’s export control system (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Firearms: a firearm which has been rendered permanently unfit for use by deactivation, ensuring that all essential parts have been rendered inoperable and incapable of removal, replacement or modification that would permit the firearm to be reactivated in any way



Summary 105:
EUROSUR framework for border surveillance and cooperation with the European Union Agency for Law Enforcement Cooperation (European Border and Coast Guard)
EurosUR framework: border surveillance
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 562/2006 establishing a framework for the exchange of information and cooperation in the field of border surveillance within the framework of EUROSUR
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes a European Union (EU) framework to improve the situational awareness and reaction capability at the external borders of the Member States of the Union (‘external borders’) for the purpose of detecting, preventing and combating illegal immigration and cross-border crime and contributing to ensuring the protection and saving the lives of migrants.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to any legal or administrative measure taken once the responsible authorities of an EU Member State have intercepted cross–border criminal activities or unauthorised crossings by persons of the EU’s external borders. It does not apply to any measures taken in the context of operational cooperation coordinated by the Agency for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms (EPHA).
EU countries must establish national coordination centres and communication networks to improve information exchange and cooperation on border surveillance between them and with the Agency.
The European situational picture and the common pre-frontier intelligence picture are essential for the establishment and application of surveillance tools.
Each Member State must establish a national coordination centre to exchange information and to exchange situational pictures of the borders of its territory.
National coordination centres must store sensitive information and communicate with each other and with other Member States.
A communication network must be set up to exchange and exchange information in a secure manner and to store sensitive sensitive information.
Member States must ensure that the communication network is secure and that national situational pictures are stored in a non-classified manner.
In addition, Member States must provide the Agency with the necessary information and tools to improve their situational awareness, reaction capability and situational awareness at their external borders for the prevention, detection and combating of illegal immigration.
Cooperation with neighbouring countries
The Member States should cooperate with neighbouring non-EU countries, particularly in the Mediterranean region, because well-structured and permanent exchanges of information, cooperation with those countries, in particular in the area of the Schengen region, are key factors for achieving the objectives of the EUROSU framework.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
The Regulation has applied since 1 January 2007.
BACKGROUND
   
 
For more information, see:
‘Border surveillance’ on the European Commission's website.
* KEY TERMS
* External borders: the external border of a Member State, i.e. the border between the country of origin and that of the State of destination.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EC, Eurosur) No 550/2006 of 20 December 2006 establishing a European framework for cooperation in border surveillance (OJ L 183, 31.12.2006, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EurOSUR) No 555/2006 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 14.02.2016



Summary 106:
Eurodac: preventing, detecting and investigating terrorist offences and serious criminal offences (Recast Regulation (EU) No 604/2013 on Eurodac (European Union database for the prevention, detection and investigation of terrorist offences) (EurodAC Regulation) (European Agency for Fundamental Rights and Justice)
EuroDac: Preventing, detecting or investigating terrorism offences and other seriouscriminal offences
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU, Euratom, ECSC) No 596/2013 — operational management of EurodAC
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
   
 
It sets out the rules for the operational management and the communication infrastructure of the European Union’s national databases, EuroDAC and Eurocat.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to all EU countries’ national databases. It does not apply to Eurocat, Europol, Eurojust or Europol.
It covers:
the European Asylum and Migration Agency;
the national access points of the EU countries;
Eurocat and Europol; and
the communication infrastructure.
Requests for comparison of fingerprint data with EuroDac data
EU countries must designate national authorities responsible for internal security the authority responsible for querying Eurodatac in well defined cases when there is a substantiated suspicion that the perpetrator of a terrorist or other serious criminal offence has applied for international protection.
The European Commission is entrusted with the operational responsibility for the management and management of the Eurodatas well as the Communication Infrastructure.
Eurodatac is managed by the European Agency for the Prevention, Detection and Investigation of Terrorism and Criminal Justice Agency (Euratom).
The Agency is responsible for:
operating the Eurodaccompanying Eurocat;
monitoring and analysing the Eurocat database;
ensuring the security of the data stored in Eurodatak;
assisting the competent national authorities in Eurocat and Eurpol in their tasks relating to the Communication infrastructure;
providing technical assistance to the European Police Agency (Europol).
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULATIONS APPLY?
It has applied since 1 December 2013.
BACKGROUND
The Regulation (EC) No 608/2008 establishes Eurodatach.
For more information, see:
‘Eurodatach’ on the European Commission's website.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Commission Implementing Decision (EU), Euratom and ECSC of 1 December 2012 laying down the technical management and operational management responsibilities of Eurodatarch (EuroDAC) and Euratom on matters pertaining to this Regulation.
Successive amendments and corrections to Regulation (EURatom) No 550/2008 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
Regulations (EC, Eurat) No 472/2006 and (ECS) No 882/2006 of the Council of 26 June 2006 establishing the European Asylum System (Eurodatarch) (see summary) and (ESA) (See summary).
Commission Decision (ECE) No 1096/2008 of 27 June 2008 establishing Eurocat (Eurocat).
See summary.
last update 14.02.2016



Summary 107:
Protection of designations of origin and geographical indications
Protection and labelling of protected designations and traditional specialities guaranteed
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 596/2006 on the protection of protected designs of origin* and protected geographical indications of agricultural products and foodstuffs
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to ensure that designations* and specialities* guaranteed* are protected in the European Union (EU).
It sets out the conditions for the registration of these names.
KEY POINTS
Protected designations
The regulation applies to:
designations* of origin (e.g. ‘traditional speciality guaranteed’) and ‘protected geographical indications’*;
guaranteed products* (i.e. products that have been produced in the EU for a significant period of time and are guaranteed to have a high level of quality;
traditional products guaranteed (i).
The European Commission may adopt guidelines on optional quality terms, such as ‘mountain products’ or ‘tourist specialities’, which may give rise to confusion or mislead consumers.
The Commission may also adopt guidelines concerning the use of the ‘EU symbol’ on the labelling and the information and promotion of these indications.
Traditional products guaranteed are protected under Regulation (EU) No 652/2006.
Protective designations are protected against the misuse, imitation and evocation of the registered names on goods as well as on services.
Registered names
They are protected for a maximum period of 10 years and may be cancelled if they are found to be in conflict with a prior trade mark.
National authorities must ensure that:
the registered names are used fairly and in order to prevent practices liable to mislead consumers;
the protection of the protected names is extended to the misuse of the names;
there is a system that verifies compliance with the product specification;
they are subject to market surveillance relating to the marketing of products;
their use is protected against counterfeiting.
In addition to the general rules on labelling, Directive 2000/13/EC on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to labelling (see summary), the regulation sets out specific rules on:
protection of the designations, geographical indications and traditional products guaranteed;
information and promotion on the use, presentation and advertising of these designations;
use of the EU symbol and the indication on the packaging of protected products.
Guaranteeing the quality of traditional products
To guarantee to the consumer the specific characteristics of geographical indications, operators must be subject to a system to verify compliance with a product specification.
To ensure that names of genuine traditional products are registered under the scheme, the criteria and conditions for registration of a name should be adapted, in particular those concerning the definition of ‘Traditional’ and the scope of the term ‘guaranteeed’.
A register of registered names must be established. The Commission may decide to extend this register to cover non-traditional products. It must also establish a system for the verification of the compliance of protected names with the specification and for the promotion of the product.
It must be possible to associate the Union symbol with the designation of origin or the traditional speciality guarantee on the label of a protected product or to associate it with the indication.
Exemptions from protection
The protection of a designation or a geographical indication may be refused on the grounds of conflict with prior trade marks. It may also be refused if it does not comply with the conditions laid down in the regulation or if it is incompatible with a national law.
Implementation of the regulation
In order to facilitate the application of the directive, the Commission must adopt guidelines. These guidelines must be adopted in the light of the fact that the regulation does not apply to certain categories of products, including:
mountain products, which are not protected under the regulation;
tourists’ specialties guaranteed, which do not bear the designation or the geographical indication;
mammoth products, for which there is no EU symbol or indication; and
traditional specialities, which bear the indication or the designation.
References
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member State
Official Journal
Directive 2006/96/EC
10.12.2006
-
OJ L 127 of 10.11.2006, pp. 1-8
Amending act(s)
Entry in force
Deadlines for transposing in the member state
Official journal
Regulations (EC, EC, EC) No 782/2006, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020, 2021, 2022, 2025, 2023, 2025, 2027, 2028, 2026, 2030,



Summary 108:
Phasing out of single-hull oil tankers and banning the transport of heavy grade oil in single-Hull vessels
Phasing-in of the application of the requirements of MARPOL 73/78 for the phasing-out of the use of heavy-duty oil tanker design
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EEC) No 552/2006 — phasing out and banning of the transport to or from EU ports of heavy category oil
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out the rules for the application by EU countries of the European Maritime Organisation’s (IMO) rules on the design and construction of double hulled ships.
It aims to reduce the risk of accidental oil pollution in European waters.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to:
oil tankers of 5 000 tonnes deadweight and above:
which fly the flag of an EU country;
irrespective of their flag, which enter or leave a port or offshore terminal or anchor in an area under the jurisdiction of a EU country.
No oil tanker shall be allowed to operate in ports or offshore terminals under the EU country of its flag, nor shall any oil tanker, irrespective of the flag, enter into ports under the territory of a non-EU country, which are not under its jurisdiction.
EU countries must ensure that:
any oil tanker flying their flag must comply with Regulation 20 of Annex I to MARPOL 1973/78 as amended in 2004 by Resolution MEPCP 117(52) adopted by the IMOJoint Committee on the Marine Environment and Maritime Safety (MEPCPolicies of the EU;
any tanker flying its flag is not allowed to enter into or leave an EU port or an offshore terminal under its own jurisdiction unless it complies with Regulation 19 of the same regulation;
no oil tanker is allowed to anchor in any EU port under its flag unless it is a double-HULL oil tanker.
Exemptions
Annex I to the regulation allows for an exception for Category 2 and Category 3 oil tanker to continue to operate, under certain circumstances, beyond the time limit of their phasing* until the end of 2026.
Implementation of the regulation
The European Commission must submit a report to the European Parliament, the Council and the European Economic and Social Committee every 5 years on the implementation of the Regulation. This report must include:
the number and type of oil tanker;
the age of the tanker; and
the type of heavy oil it carries.
In addition, the Commission must publish an annual report on its implementation of this regulation. It must also publish a report on the progress made by the EU countries in implementing the regulation.
Repeal
The Regulation repeals and repeals Regulation 20/78/EEC as of 1 January 2008.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULATING APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 January 2006.
BACKGROUND
The EU has adopted a number of measures to ensure the safety of its maritime transport sector, including:
a ban on the import of heavy crude oil from the United States of America;
a prohibition on the export of crude oil to and from the EU.
For more information, see:
Heavy crude oil (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Heavy crude oil: oil tanker: a tanker of more than 5,000 tonnes.
* Single hulled: a ship of less than 10 metres in length.
MAIN DOCUMENT
 
  браканска гранка  глакка
Commission Implementing Regulation (Eec) No 653/2006 of 20 January 2006 establishing an accelerated phasing in scheme for the applying of the double hull or equivalent design requirements of Regulation 73/1978, as defined in Article 3 of this Regulation, to single hull oil tanker (OJ L 183, 1.1.2006, pp. 1-18)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EC) no 653 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 14.02.2022



Summary 109:
Supervision of financial institutions in the European Union (ESFSF)
Supervisory arrangements in the Euro area
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 1092/2010 establishing a European system of financial supervisory authorities
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
   
It establishes the European System of Financial Supervisory Authorities (ESFSA).
It aims to improve the quality and consistency of national supervision, strengthening oversight of cross-border groups and establishing a single rule book applicable to all financial institutions operating in the EU.
KEY POINTS
The ESFS is an integrated network of national and EU supervisory authority, leaving day-to-day supervision to the national level. It is responsible for:
supervision of banks and credit rating agencies;
supervising the prudential supervision of insurance and reinsurance companies;
monitoring the financial stability of the EU’s financial system.
The European Systemic Risk Board (ESRB) forms part of the ESFS for the purposes of the tasks as specified in this regulation.
Supervision powers
The ESCFSA is empowered to:
suspend or restrict certain financial activities that threaten the orderly functioning and integrity of financial markets or the stability of financial systems in the Union in the cases specified and under the conditions laid down in the legislative acts referred to in the regulation;
make recommendations to the European Commission on how the ESCFS could play a strong role in crisis situations;
ensure that decisions taken by ESCFS authorities do not impinge on the fiscal responsibilities of EU countries.
It also has the power to adopt delegated acts.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
It entered into force
It has applied since 1 January 2011.
BACKGROUND
In November 2008, the Commission mandated a High-Level Group chaired by Jacques de Larosière to make recommendations on how to strengthen European supervisory arrangements with a view to better protecting the citizen and rebuilding trust in the system. The crisis exposed shortcomings in the areas of cooperation, coordination, consistent application of EU law and trust between national supervisors.
For more information, see:
European supervisory system (European Commission).
REFERENCESFS:
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Council Decision 2010/1092/EU
1.1.2011
-
OJ L 127 of 1.1-2011
RELATED ACTS
 
Regulations (EC) No 596/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2009 on the taking-up and pursuit of the business of Insurance and Reinsurance (Solvency II) and on the European systemic risk board (ESRB) and repealing Directive 2002/92/EC (OJ C 202 of 9 December 2002 on insurance mediation) (Official Journal L 347 of 21.11.2009).
Directive 2009/138/EC of the same Parliament and Council of 26 November 2009 laying down the tasks for the competent authorities of Member States, including cooperating with each other and with the Commission, in relation to the taking up, pursuit, pursuit and taking up of business in the fields of insurance, reinsurance and financial services (Solventcy II).
See consolidated version.
Commission Decision 2009/118/EC on the implementation of Directive 2009/137/EC in the field of credit ratings and on insolvency and solvency.
last update 27.02.2015



Summary 110:
Mobility of labour within the EU: mobility of workers, employment and vocational training (codified version)
Mobilities of labour, employment, vocational training and mobility of teachers and students
Mobility OFLIFE OF LIVES AND WORKERS
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 552/97 — mobility of labour
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
   
 
It codifies and repeals Regulation (EC, No 553/96) No 652/96.
It aims to facilitate the movement of workers and their families within the European Union (EU).
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to nationals of all EU countries, regardless of their nationality.
Eligibility for employment
Nationals of the EU countries must be able to apply for employment in any undertaking, branch of activity or region, or at a national level, where they do not reside in the territory of an EU country.
They do not have to be subject to conditions of registration with employment offices or impede recruitment of individual workers, where persons who do not live in that country are concerned.
The European Coordination Office (ECO) is responsible for coordinating the coordination of the mobility of EU countries’ labour market services.
EU countries must send to the ECO a list of services which specialise in certain occupations or specific categories of persons. These services must cooperate directly with each other.
Workers’ families are entitled to the same social and tax advantages as nationals of the other EU countries.
Children of a national of a European Union country who is or has been employed in another EU country are admitted to that country’s general educational, apprenticeship and vocational education and training courses under the same conditions as the nationals of that EU country, if such children are residing in its territory.
Education and training
The Commission must forward to the Commission the list, drawn up by common accord, of services referred to in paragraph 1 and the Commission shall publish such list for information, and any amendment thereto, in the Official Journal of the Union.
In addition, the Commission must send the list to the specialist services of each EU country to provide as much practical information as possible on the various aspects of mobility, and the state of the labour market as is likely to be of guidance to workers from the other countries. The Commission must communicate these facts to the technical committee of the European Economic and Social Committee and to the specialised services of the Member States.
Information concerning living and working conditions
Each Member State must send a report to the Technical Committee on the living conditions of workers from other Member States and the State of the Labour Market. The report must summarise the information it has received and the data arising out of studies and studies carried out pursuant to the studies and analyses carried out by the technical committees. It must be communicated to the competent authorities in the Member State concerned and, where necessary, to the European Commission.
Vacancies and applications
The details of vacancies and applications for employment must be circulated according to a uniform system to be established by the European coordination office in collaboration with the European coordinination office. The services responsible for border regions must also set up cooperation and service structures to provide:
users with practical information on mobility;
management and labour, social services (in particular public, private or those of public interest) and all institutions concerned, with a framework of coordinated measures relating to mobility,
official employment services which are specialised in certain occupation or specific category of persons, with cooperation directly with one another.
Where necessary, the services territorially responsible for cross-border regions shall also establish cooperation structures to:
provide users with practical advice on mobility as possible;
contribute to the development of a harmonised system of mobility for workers, their families and employers;
cooperate with the specialisation services in the fields of education, training, vocational education, vocational and employment;
carry out joint studies and analysis of labour market developments;
coordinate the implementation of joint measures at European level with the technical coordination office.
References
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the member countries
Official Journal
Council Regulation (EU) No 529/97
20.12.1997
-
OJ L 127 of 20.12, 20.11.1997, pp. 1-2
RELATED ACTS
                                                    
Commission Implementing Regulation (EEC, Euratom) No 1082/97 of 20 November 1997 laying down the rules on the mobility and mobility-related measures of the social partners of workers within the Union (Codified version).
last update 04.02.2016



Summary 111:
Ban on the use of hydrochlorofluorocarbons in the manufacture, import and export of products and equipment containing or relying on ozone-depleting substances (ODS)
Ban onthe use of ozone depletion substances (ODS)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 2037/2000 on the ban on use of substances and mixtures that Deplete the Ozone Layer
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to ensure that the European Union (EU) does not use any substances that deplete the ozone layer.
It recasts and repeals the regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 July 1991 concerning the placing on the market of substances that deplete the ozone Layer.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to:
the production, import, export and use of products or equipment containing, relying on, or being used for the maintenance or servicing of refrigeration and air conditioning equipment;
the import, transit, storage, customs warehousing and the free zone procedure of products, equipment or mixtures containing ODS.
Exemptions
The ban applies to certain substances such as methyl bromide, chlorinated biphenylsulfate, perchlorate, trichloroethylene and perchlorohexane. It does not apply to the following the entry into force of the Montreal Protocol on Substances that depleting the ozone (see summary) and to certain other substances.
the ban on the export of certain products, including:
mixtures containing and relying on:
perchlorate;
methanol;
perfluoromethane;
pyrrolizidine;
pentane.
The annexes to the regulation supplement the Protocol with decisions of the parties to the protocol.
Implementation of the regulation
In order to ensure compliance with the Protocol and to improve their practical application, the Commission is empowered to modify the reporting requirements for EU countries and undertakings.
EU countries are required to report to the Commission every 5 years on the substances they use and the quantities of substances they have used.
In addition, the regulation sets out rules on the labelling, labelling and packaging of substances, as well as on the disposal of waste.
Monitoring
The Commission is responsible for the monitoring of the substances used in the EU and for their disposal. It is also responsible for assessing the impact of these substances on human health and the environment.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
The Regulation has applied since 1 January 2002.
BACKGROUND
   
 
For more information, see:
‘Ozone depletion’ on the European Commission’s website.
* KEY TERMS
* Ozone depletion substance: a substance that depletes the atmosphere of ozone by burning certain organic compounds, such as sulphur hexafluoride.
MAIN DOCUMENT
  i.e. the regulation on the prohibition of the use, importation, export or use of certain substances and of mixtures of substances classified as ODS (Recast) (OJ L 183, 1.1.2002, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to the Regulation have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 14.02.2016



Summary 112:
European Union Agency for the Protection of the Environment (EURatom) (European Union agency for the protection of the environment) (EC) No 1049/2001)
European Union Environment Agency (Euratom)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 1024/2001 on the European Union’s Environmental Agency
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes the Environmental Agency (EPA).
The purpose of the EPA is to:
ensure that the public is properly informed about the state of the European environment;
provide the necessary technical and scientific support.
KEY POINTS
   
The Agency is responsible for:
collecting, analysing and disseminating information on the state and future state of Europe's environment.
Its main tasks include:
monitoring and analysing the quality of the EU's environment and the pressures on it;
ensuring that the environment is taken into account in the formulation of EU environmental policy;
assisting the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the European Committee of the Regions in the preparation of environmental policy.
EU countries must keep the Agency informed of the main component elements of their national environment information networks, especially in the priority areas, including any institution which in their judgment could contribute to the work of the Agency, taking into account the need to ensure the fullest possible geographical coverage of their territory.
The European Parliament and the Council designate, as national focal points, a ‘national focal point’ for coordinating and/or transmitting information to the Agency and the information to be supplied at national level to the institutions or bodies forming part of the Network, including the topic centres referred to in Article 4 of the regulation.
Each year, the Agency adopts its multiannual programme on the basis of a draft submitted by the Executive Director after consulting the European Commission and receiving its opinion.
A management board is set up by the Agency. It is composed of representatives of the Member States, the Commission and the Management Board. It meets at least twice a year. The Executive Director is assisted by a scientific committee. The committee is composed, in particular, of members particularly qualified in the field of environmental protection, and is chaired by a Member State representative.
FROM WHEN DOES THE REGULE APPLY?
The regulation has applied since 30 April 2001.
BACKGROUND
 
  The EPA is one of a number of agencies responsible for the implementation of the environmental policy of European Union (EU).
For more information, see:
‘The European Environment Agency’ on the EPA's website.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EU), Euratom, Euratom of 30 March 2001 on the establishment, operation and maintenance of the Environmental Protection Agency (EC), codified version (OJ L 183, 30.4.2001, pp. 1-12)
last update 04.02.2016(1) The United Kingdom withdraws from the EU and becomes a third country.



Summary 113:
Eco-management and audit scheme (EMAS) for organisations in the environment and sustainable development
Eco–management and auditing scheme (EASA) for companies in and outside the EU
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 761/2001 establishing an eco-management* and audit* scheme
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes an eco–management* scheme for organisations whose activities have an environmental impact.
It aims to improve the environmental performance of companies in the European Union (EU).
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to all companies whose activities affect the environment, whether or not they are located in the EU.
Organisations must:
make publicly available periodic environmental statements providing the public and other interested parties with information on their compliance with applicable legal requirements relating to the environment;
ensure that their environmental policy and environmental management systems are in place;
have an environmental programme, objectives and targets;
meet the deadlines for achieving the environmental objectives;
provide an annual report on their environmental performance.
An organisation’s environmental statement and updated environmental statement must be reliable, credible and correct and meet the requirements of this regulation.
Accreditation bodies and competent bodies must ensure that the environmental statements and environmental statements are validated and that they are available to the public.
The European Commission must produce sectoral reference documents in the area covered by this regulation following a priority programme.
EU countries may grant incentives to registered organisations such as access to funding or tax incentives in the framework of schemes supporting the performance of industry, provided that the organisations are able to demonstrate an improvement of their environmental quality.
EMAS is open to all organisations, including those located in non-EU countries, that have an impact on the environment.
Participation in EMAS is voluntary and may be made on a voluntary basis and may gain added value in terms of regulatory control, cost savings and public image.
Recognition of accredited bodies
The Commission must establish an accreditation body and a competent body for each EU country. The accreditation bodies are responsible for monitoring and verifying the compliance of organisations with the environmental requirements of EMAS. The competent bodies are appointed by the European Commission and must be independent of national authorities. They must also ensure that organisations comply with the rules of the European Parliament, the Council and the European Economic and Social Committee (EEA).
The competent bodies have the power to issue accreditation and supervision licences to organisations that have been accredited under EMAS and to supervise their environmental statements.
In addition, the Commission must publish sectoral references for the areas covered by the regulation. These refer to the EU countries’ national reference documents on the environmental aspects, environmental impacts and environmental performance related to an organisation's activities, products and services.
References
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 768/2009
-
-   
OJ L 127 of 27.4.2009
RELATED ACTS
Regulations (EC, Euratom) No 552/2008 and (EC), Euratom No 553/2008
Regulating (EC).
 
Regulatory (EU, Eurat) No 609/2008 of the EU Parliament and of the Council of 22 July 2008 establishing a Community eco-monitoring and audit system for the environmental management and audit of undertakings and bodies in the fields of energy, transport, agriculture, forestry, fisheries, aquaculture and fisheries and amending Regulations (EC and Euratom).
Directive 2009/34/EC of the Parliament and the Council amending Council Regulation (Euratom). The amending regulation repeals Council Regulation No 1600/2002/EC as regards the Community Environment Action Programme (see summary).
last update 04.02.2021



Summary 114:
Rules on the production, description, presentation, presentation and labelling of spirit drinks and the protection of geographical indications of certain spirit drinks (Regulation (EC) No 510/2006)
Rules on:
the definition, description*, presentation*, labelling*, production*, and presentation
the protection of certain geographical indications
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out the rules applicable to the definition* and presentation*, description*, description**, presentation, labelling* and production*, as well as on the protection* of geographical indication*.
It does not apply to spirit drinks produced in the EU for export.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to all spirit drinks:
from any agricultural raw material listed in Annex I to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU);
from raw materials of agricultural origin other than cereals and/or potatoes.
It applies to:
vodka;
wine;
spirits;
bourbon;
pomace;
malt;
cocoa;
liqueur;
coffee;
vegetable spirits.
The rules apply to the following categories:
cognac, sparkling wine, sparkling cider, rum, liqueur, rum and liqueurs;
mead;
seaweed, cider, cider and rum;
spiced wine;
whiskey;
roastwater;
sweetened rum and rum.
cider;
alcohol.
pomegranate juice;
fruit juice.
wine and cider.
liquor and cider;
tobacco.
Vodka.
Directive (EU) 2016/852 on the harmonisation of the laws of the Member States relating to the labelling and presentation of spirits (see summary).
The regulations also apply to spirits produced on their own territory and in particular for geographical indications registered in Annex III or for the establishment of new geographical indications.
Labelling
Each spirit drink must bear the following information on its label:
type of spirit drink;
name and description;
description of the spirit drink and its presentation;
the geographical indication;
type and description of the geographical indication (Annex II);
the minimum alcoholic strength of the product in category 41 in Annex II.
In addition, spirit drinks may contain natural or nature-identical flavouring substances and preparations as defined in Article 1(2)(b)(i) and (ii) of Directive 88/388/EEC;
contain colouring;
be sweetened to correspond to particular product characteristics and according to Annex I(3) to this regulation and taking into account the particular legislation of Member States.
General rules on the quality of the products produced and their labelling
Member States may adopt rules stricter than those laid down in this regulation on production, describing, presentation*, presentation andlabelling. They must apply a quality policy to ensure a high level of quality and diversity in the sector. These rules must be adopted in accordance with the rules laid down by the European Commission.
Exceptions to the above rules
The following products are excluded from the scope of the regulation:
alcoholic spirits (e.g. rum and cider);
wine, cider or cider-based spirits (i.e. those with a maximum alcoholic strength greater than 0.5% alcohol);
veterinary spirits (vodka and rum-based drinks);
coppernauts (cider and cider).
Exemptions from the regulation include:
wine-based spirit drinks which are produced on the territory of a non-EU country;
spirits which are made from raw materials other than those listed in the annex to the regulation;
drinks which are not made from agricultural raw materials.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
The Regulation has applied since 1 January 2008.
BACKGROUND
   
 
For more information, see:
‘European spirit drinks’ on the Commission’s website.
* KEY TERMS
* Spirit drink: a spirit drink is defined as any spirit drink which is made from a raw material other than agricultural origin.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 530/2006 of 20 March 2006 laying down the rules applying to the description, description and presentation, production*, presentation & labelling (OJ L 46, 20.3.2006, pp. 1–20)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EEC, EC) No 520/2006 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 27.02.2016



Summary 115:
Common rules for safeguarding civil aviation (common basic standards on aviation security) - Regulation (EC) No 2320/2002 (see summary)
Common rules on the safeguarding of civil aviation
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 3232/2002 on common rules and common basic standards for aviation security
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes common rules for the protection of persons and goods travelling by air within the European Union (EU).
It seeks to simplify, harmonise and clarify the existing rules and the improvement of the levels of security.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to the following:
all airports or parts of airports located in the territory of an EU country that are not exclusively used for military purposes;
all operators, including air carriers, providing services at airports referred to in point (a);
all entities applying aviation security standards that operate from premises located inside or outside airport premises and provide goods and/or services to or through airports;
account consignors* who originates cargo or mail for its own account and whose procedures meet common security rules and standards sufficient to allow carriage of that cargo on all-cargo aircraft or mail on an all-mail aircraft.
It does not apply to:
passenger aircraft;
airside baggage;
cabin baggage*;
baggage intended for carriage in the cabin of an aircraft; and
aircraft security search.
EU countries must draw up a national civil aviation security programme.
The European Commission may use the urgency procedure for the adoption of the common rules.
Measures for monitoring compliance
Each EU country must:
ensure that:
airport security officers are specially selected and trained, taking into account the required security and safety aspects on board an aircraft,
in-flight security officers have the necessary training and experience;
security measures are in place to detect and prevent unlawful interference with civil aircraft that jeopardises the security of the aircraft. These measures must be implemented in accordance with the rules of the European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA).
The Commission may adopt general measures, designed to amend non-essential elements of the regulation by supplementing them, to ensure that it is complied with.
In addition, the Commission may decide to grant derogations to non-EU countries if they consider that these measures are equivalent to those of the EU countries.
Exemptions from security controls
A number of EU countries are exempt from the requirements of this regulation. These include:
the United Kingdom (1);
Ireland (2);
France (3);
Germany (4);
the Netherlands (5);
Romania (6);
Spain (7);
Italy (8);
Iceland (9);
Sweden (10);
Austria (11);
Bulgaria (12);
Norway (13);
Turkey (14);
Yugoslavia (15);
Syria (16);
Zimbabwe (17);
United Arab Emirates (18);
Vietnam (19); and
United States of America (20).
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
It entered into force on 1 July 2002.
BACKGROUND
   
 
For more information, see:
Civil aviation security (European Commission).
MAIN DOCUMENT
  Егаранска ганка
Commission Implementing Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 422/2002 of 29 June 2002 on common basic rules and general basic standards of aviation security for the safeguarded of civil aircraft (OJ L 127, 1.7.2002, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (Euratom, EASA, IEC, EC, ECSC and Euratom have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 14.02.2016



Summary 116:
Restrictive measures against persons, entities and bodies involved in serious human rights violations or abuses
Restricting access to funds and economic resources of those responsible for, providing support to or otherwise involved in such violations and abuses (Council Regulation (EU) 2019/852)
RestrictIVE measures against individuals, entities, bodies and bodies responsible for or involved in those serious violations and violations of human rights
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 552/2019 — freezing of funds and the prohibition to make funds available to, and to those associated with, persons and entities responsible for and providing support for, serious human-rights violations, abuses and abuses
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION AND THE DECISION?
The regulation and the decision aim to restrict the movement of funds, economic resources and other assets of individuals and entities involved in or associated with those responsible and associated with the above-mentioned human rights abuses and violations.
The decision sets out the list of persons and bodies covered by the regulation and decision.
KEY POINTS
The freeze applies to:
individuals, entities or bodies who are responsible for acts set out in the annex to Decision (CFSP) 2020/1999;
natural or legal persons or bodies, who provide financial, technical, or material support for or are involved in acts, including by planning, directing, ordering, assisting, preparing, facilitating, facilitating or encouraging such acts;
any person, entity or body associated with these individuals or bodies.
EU countries and the European Commission must inform the other EU countries of any authorisations granted under this regulation and of any additional information they receive from the European Anti-Fraud Office (EFTAO).
The EU countries must inform each other of the measures taken pursuant to this regulation, and of other relevant information at their disposal in connection with this regulation.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 January 2019 and had to become law in the EU countries by 1 January 2020.
BACKGROUND
 
The Council of the European Union has adopted a number of measures to combat human rights and human-related abuses in the context of the Council of Europe’s anti-Fascist policy.
For more information, see:
‘The EU’ on the European External Action Service's website.
MAIN DOCUMENT
  Егрансканка на баркацка  халка (Regulation) (OJ L 183, 1.1.2019, pp. 1–2)
Council Regulation(EC) 2019–852 of 21 December 2019 on the freezing and prohibition of funds or economic resources, and on the prohibition of making funds available, to persons, bodies or bodies responsible or associated in serious violations or violations of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and on those associated in those acts, and amending Council Regulation (Euratom) No 852/2013 (Oj L 183 of 21.1).
RELATED DOCUMENTS
  ARTICLE
  I.
Council Decision 2020/2000/CFSP of 20 December 2000 on the implementation of the EU Anti‑Fascist Strategy and on reviewing the Annex to Decision 2000/1999 of the same name.
Decision 2000/98/EC on the application of the Community Action Plan on the prevention and prevention of the Crime of Genocide and the Convention against Torture and other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment.
See consolidated version.
Commission Decision (EU, Euratom) 2020–2000 on the protection of human and fundamental rights and of fundamental freedoms and of the principles of international law and on implementing the European Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights (see consolidated version).
last update 14.02.2021



Summary 117:
EU naval operation in the Mediterranean (EUNAVFORCE IN THE MEDIARY
EU NAVFOR MED IRINI
SUMMARY OF:
Decision (CFSP) 2020/472 on a European Union military operation in Libya
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DECISION?
It authorises the European Union (EU) military operation (EUVFOR MEDINI) in Libya.
It aims to prevent the illicit export of petroleum from Libya, to capacity building and training of the Libyan Coast Guard and Navy, and to disrupt the business model of human smuggling and trafficking networks.
KEY POINTS
The operation is designed to:
contribute to the implementation of the UN arms embargo on Libya with aerial, satellite and maritime assets;
provide situational awareness in the area of operation and in the Area of Interest;
support the detection and monitoring of trafficking networks through information gathering and patrolling carried out by aerial assets above the high seas, in the agreed Area of Operation.
In addition, the operation contributes to the prevention of the export of weapons of mass destruction to Libya, as well as to the disruption of trafficking in human beings and drugs.
EUNAFOR MEDIRINI may, in particular in the course of inspections carried out in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution (UNSCR) 2292 (2016), collect and store evidence related to the carriage of items prohibited under the arms embargo.
As a secondary task, and in line with UNSCR 2240 (2015), the operation is to support the training of Libyan coast guard and navy personnel.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS DECISION APPLYEARNING THE OPERATION
The decision has applied since 31 March 2020.
BACKGROUND
The EU has been involved in a number of operations in Libya since 19 January 2020, including:
Operation Medirini (EUAFRICOM (European Union Maritime and Coast Guard Mission in Libya);
EUFOR MEDICOM (EU Maritime and Coastal Guard Mechanism in Libya).
For more information, see:
European Union Military Operation in Libya (European External Action Service).
MAIN DOCUMENTS
   
Council Decision 2020/473/472/CFSPCOUNCIL DECISION
31 March 2020 establishing a European EU military operation for the purpose of preventing the illicit importation of arms and ammunition from Libya and to preventing the illegal export of crude oil, including crude oil and refined petroleum products.
Successive amendments and corrections to Decision 2010/852/EC have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
Council Directive (EUEC) 2021/856 of 21 May 2021 establishing a Joint European Union Military Force in Libya and amending Decision (EUEUMCOM) (OJ L 101 of 20.5.2021).
last update 04.02.2022



Summary 118:
Fraudulent travel documents and false travel documents: FADO (European Agency for Law Enforcement Cooperation) system
Frictionless application of the laws of the European Union (FADO)* system
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) 2019/1896 on the establishment, operation and management of the Facility for the Analysis of Authentic Documents and False Travel Documents
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes the framework for the establishment and operation of the facility for the analysis of authentic travel, identity, residence and civil status documents, driving licences and vehicle licences and on other related official documents, in particular those used in support of applications for official documents issued by third parties, such as third countries, territorial entities, international organisations and other entities subject to international law, and on false versions thereof.
It repeals and replaces Regulation (Joint Action 98/700/JHA) on document and identity fraud.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The purpose of the regulation is to contribute to the fight against document-related fraud by sharing information on the security features of, and potential fraud in, authentic and false documents between the EU countries’ competent authorities.
EU countries are obliged to provide the Agency with information on authentic documents which they issue, including on security features thereof, and the false versions of such documents in their possession. The Agency will enter that information in the system and guarantee the uniformity and quality of the information.
The Agency will also provide the general public with different levels of access to the system depending on their needs and the sensitivity of the data concerned. It will not be possible to search for any elements of personal data in this system.
In addition to the Agency’s role, the system will also be used by the European Commission, the Agency, the European Border and Coast Guard (BAR) and the European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA).
The system will be used for the following purposes:
the exchange of information between EU countries, the EU and non-EU countries;
the sharing of information on methods of falsification of authentic documents and the identification of persons involved in such falsification;
identification of persons who have been identified by means of the system;
exchanges of information and recommendations on effective ways of detecting and preventing document fraud;
implementation of measures to combat document fraud by EU countries and international organisations.
Exchange of information
The European Agency will be able to exchange information on:
authentic travel documents,
driving licences and
vehicle licences;
travel, identity and residence documents;
driving licence and vehicle licence applications;
passports and visas;
visas and travel documents issued in the EU;
other related documents used in the context of the Schengen acquis.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
The regulation entered into force on 1 January 2019.
BACKGROUND
 
The Facility for Authentication of Documents and false Travel Documents was set up in 2003. It was designed to facilitate information exchange between the competent authorities of EU countries on authentic and falsified travel documents. It has been in operation since 2004.
For more information, see:
Document and Identity Fraud (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Document and Identity Document: an official document issued by an EU country.
* False travel document: a document that has been altered or falsified in order to facilitate the entry into the EU of a non-authorised person.
MAIN DOCUMENT
   
Commission Implementing Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2018/852 of 21 December 2018 establishing the framework, operation, management and control of the Functioning of the Agency for Legal Aid and Enforcement of the Law of the Member States, the Union and third parties in the area of document fraud (OJ L 347, 28.12.2018, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (Euratom) No 347 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 14.02.2021



Summary 119:
Access to, or the pursuit of, regulated professions: proportionality and transparency (Mutual Evaluation Process)
Access to, orthe pursuit of: regulated professions
SUMMARY OF:
Directive 2005/36/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the access to and pursuit of regulated professions (mutual evaluation process)
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DIRECTIVE?
It aims to harmonise the requirements on access to a regulated profession or to the pursuit thereof laid down in European Union (EU) law.
KEY POINTS
The directive applies to the following professions:
medicine and pharmaceuticals;
health and social care;
lawyers and accountants.
It does not apply to:
professional organisations or bodies;
professional societies and bodies.
EU countries must assess the proportionality of the measures they introduce, and the additional criteria which are relevant for the regulated profession being analysed.
Proportionality
The measures must be applied in a non-discriminatory manner; be justified by public interest objectives; be suitable for securing the objective which they pursue; and not go beyond what is necessary in order to attain that objective.
If a measure does not meet the above criteria, it should not be considered to be suitable.
Where the independence of a profession cannot be adequately guaranteed by other means, EU countries could consider the application of safeguards, such as limiting the shareholding of persons outside the profession or providing that the majority of voting rights are to be held by persons practising the profession, as long as such safeguards do not constitute an overriding reason in the public interest.
Scope
The regulation applies to all professions in the EU. It does not cover:
medical products and services;
medical devices and equipment;
legal advice and training;
employment and social security schemes;
education and training.
Exemptions
Certain professions are excluded from the scope of the directive. These include:
the legal profession of a Member State;
the profession of an Accountant or Accountant;
a Member State’s professional organisation or body;
an organisation that is entrusted by the State with safeguarding the legitimate practice of the profession;
membership of a professional organisation, or organising or supervising continuous professional training; and
members of professional societies or bodies that are responsible for the proper functioning of the internal market.
In addition, Member States may exempt certain professions from the obligation to undergo continuous professional development. For example, certain professions may be exempt from this obligation if they meet certain conditions.
Quality of service
Member States must ensure that the quality of the service provided is high and that it is accessible to the public. Member States must also ensure that:
there is a high level of transparency in the supply chain;
there are adequate safeguards to protect the health and safety of patients;
procedures are in place to ensure that medicines are safe and that they are easily accessible to consumers.
The Member State concerned must also take into account the impact of the regulation on the free movement of persons and services within the Union, on consumer choice and on the quality and quantity of the services provided.
Mutual evaluation procedure
The European Commission has launched a mutual evaluation process to assess the measures that Member States have adopted in relation to access to regulated professions. It is based on a number of criteria, including:
proportionality;
quality of service;
availability of information;
impact on the public;
effects on the economy.
FROM WHEN DO THE DIRECTIVES APPLY?
Directives 2005/35/EC and 2006/34/EC have applied since 1 January 2005.
DirectIVE 2006/24/EC has applied since 31 December 2006.
Amending Directive 2006/28/EC entered into force on 1 January 2007 and had to become law in Member States by 31 December 2008.
Regulation (EC) No 596/2009 has applied from 1 January 2009.
For more information, see:
‘Medicine’ on the European Commission's website.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member State
Official Journal
Commission Implementing Decision 2005/37/EC
1.1.2005
-
OJ L 127, 1.1, 2005, pp. 1-8
RELATED ACTS
Communication from the Commission to the Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee, the Committee of the Regions and the Committee on the Functioning of the Internal Market (COM(2009) 696 final - Not published in the Official Journal).
Communications from the European Union to the United Kingdom, the United States, Canada, Japan, Australia, New Zealand, Norway, Switzerland, Austria, Finland, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway and Switzerland on the implementation of the Framework Directive on Access to Medicine



Summary 120:
Management of fish stocks and fisheries in the North Sea and Baltic Sea: multiannual plan
Management of fishing stocks and their fisheries in North Sea, Baltic Sea and Black Sea
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 1380/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the implementation of the common fisheries policy
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes a plan for the management of fishing opportunities in EU waters of the north and Baltic seas.
It sets out the objectives, quantifiable targets, conservation reference points, safeguards and technical measures designed to avoid and reduce unwanted catches.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to:
fishing opportunities for all stocks of species to which the EU has a landing obligation;
fisheries in the Baltic Sea, the Black Sea and adjacent waters, as well as to demersal stocks;
the North Sea.
Stocks of species covered by the plan
The plan must be updated every 5 years. It must include:
a range of fish species and their fishing opportunities;
measures to prevent, reduce and eliminate unwanted catches;
target ranges and safeguards;
timeframes, targets, time frames and margins;
safeguards.
The European Commission may adopt delegated acts adjusting the geographical distribution of stocks set out in the plan if the scientific advice provided by the International Commission for the Conservation of Marine Living Resources (ICES) indicates a change in the distribution of the relevant stocks.
Objectives
the plan must contribute to the achievement of the objectives of the Common Fisheries Policy listed in Article 2 of the regulation.
it must:
ensure that fishing opportunities are fixed in accordance with the objectives;
contribute to the sustainable management of mixed fisheries, i.e.
Safeguards and measures
The management plan must include measures to prevent and reduce the number of unwanted catches, including:
measures designed to reduce the risk of overfishing;
monitoring measures to ensure that the plan is implemented;
implementing technical measures to protect the marine environment.
Monitoring measures
EU Member States must submit joint recommendations to the Commission by 6 August 2023 on the application of the plan. The Commission must assess the adequacy and effectiveness of this regulation based on scientific advice.
In addition, Member States may adopt temporary cessation measures that have been adopted in order to attain the plan’s objectives. These measures must be submitted to the European Commission within 6 months of the end of the 5-year period.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULATIONS APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 January 2014.
BACKGROUND
The EU’S common fisheries management policy (CFP) aims to restore fish stocks, in the shortest time feasible, to levels that can produce fish stocks that can sustain populations of harvested species.
For more information, see:
‘Fisheries management’ on the Commission's website.
MAIN DOCUMENT
 
  барканска гранда 
Council Regulation (EU), Euratom, Euratom and the European Economic and Social Committee of 21 December 2013 on the multiannually-based management plan for fishing opportunities for fish stocks (OJ L 347, 31.12.2013, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (Euratom, EEC, Euram) No 347 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 04.02.2016



Summary 121:
Fishing for straddling fish stocks in the South-East Pacific Fishery Management Area (SPFMO Convention Area)
Fishing in the south-east Pacific Fisheries Management Area
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) 2017/852 — management, conservation and control provisions relating to fishing for fishing for fish species in the SPRFMO convention area
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It lays down rules for fishing in the southern part of the South–East Pacific Maritime Forests Management Area.
It aims to ensure the long-term conservation and sustainable use of fishery resources by the application of the precautionary approach to fisheries management and an ecosystem-based approach.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to:
fishing vessels operating in the convention area;
third country fishing vessels transhipping fishery products harvested in the area; and
third countries fishing vessels upon requesting access to, or being the object of an inspection in, EU ports and carrying fishery product from the area.
Seabird mitigation measures
All EU fishing vessels using longlines shall be subject to the seabird-mitigation measures set out in this regulation. These include:
a ban on discharging offal during shooting and hauling;
the use of gillnets;
a prohibition on the use of nets, which is more than 2.5 kilometres in length;
an obligation to inform the Commission of any significant adverse impacts on seabirds during the normal course of fishing operations.
the level of observer coverage dedicated to recording seird.
The Commission must transmit the annual scientific report covering the previous year.
Fisheries are subject to a ban on the dumping of offal into the sea.
In addition, EU countries must ensure that:
seabird data are reported to the Commission by the 20th day of each month;
fisheries vessels are informed of any adverse impacts to the marine ecosystems caused by their fishing activities;
seafarers are informed in advance of any changes in the conditions of the sea;
EU countries are required to report the results of their fishing operations to the European Commission every 2 years.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULATIONS APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 January 2017.
BACKGROUND
 
The European Union has signed the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, which contains principles and rules with regard to the conservation and management of the living resources of the seas.
For more information, see:
The EU’s fisheries policy (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Seabird: any marine animal or plant which is threatened by significant adverse impact resulting from physical contact with bottom gears in the normal process of fishing activities, including reefs, seamounts, hydrothermal vents, cold water corals or cold water sponge beds.
* Fishing vessel: any fishing vessel flying their flag and fishing in an area covered by the Convention.
MAIN DOCUMENT
  Еграканска барка
Council Regulation (EC) No 852/2017 of 21 January 2017 laying down management and conservation measures relating to the fishing for fattening fish stocks (OJ L 127, 1.2.2017, pp. 1–8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EEC) no 852 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 14.02.2021



Summary 122:
Exchange of information on movements of cash within the European Union (EU) (Regulation (EC) No 1889/2005) (SUMMARY)
Exchange, storage and exchange of data on cross-border movements of certain types of cash
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out rules to prevent and deter the movement of cash* within the EU.
It aims to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to:
natural persons entering or leaving the EU;
cash couriers;
travel agents;
transport companies.
Controls
EU countries must:
impose all requisite controls on persons, their luggage, the means of transport used to cross the external borders and any unaccompanied consignment or receptacle crossing that border which may contain cash;
ensure that controls are based primarily on a risk analysis, with the purpose of identifying and evaluating the risks and developing the necessary countermeasures.
The competent authorities collect the declarations and perform controls under this regulation.
Where the competent authorities register a failure to declare or disclose cash or where there are indications of criminal activity, they should promptly share that information with other EU countries through appropriate channels.
Information must be exchanged between the authorities and the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) and Europol, as well as between the EU countries participating in enhanced cooperation pursuant to that regulation and with the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC).
The information must be recorded in a standardised format. It should be made available to the Commission, to the European Public Prosecutor’s Office and to Europol.
Exceptions to the obligation to declare and disclose cash include:
individuals who have been convicted of a criminal offence;
persons who have committed a serious offence in another EU country;
those who are suspected of being involved in a terrorist organisation.
In addition, the regulation allows EU countries to restrict movements of capital that cause, or threaten to cause, serious difficulties for the operation of economic and monetary union or under Articles 143 and 144 TFEU as a result of a sudden crisis in the balance of payments.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
It entered into force on 1 July 2005.
BACKGROUND
   
 
For more information, see:
‘Movement of cash’ on the European Commission's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Movement of cash: any form of highly-liquid store of value, such as cash couriers, travel agents and travel agents, that can be moved by means of means other than a passport or visa.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 89/2005 of 21 May 2005 on the obligation of natural persons entering and leaving the Union to declare cash (OJ L 127, 23.5.2005, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Council Regulation (Euratom) no 1889/05 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
  i.e. Regulation (EU, Euratox) 2017/1939 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 May 2017 on the exchange, storage, exchange and exchange in the Member States of certain forms of cash and amending Council Regulations (EC), Euratom and Euratom as regards the declaration and disclosure of cash, the information to be stored and the exchange of personal data on persons who are subject to this obligation and the information that must be communicated to the competent national authorities.
Regulation(EU) No 4534/2004 of the General Assembly of 22 May 2004 on the declaration of cash (EC(2004) No 596/2004) (See summary).
See consolidated version.
last update 04.02.2021



Summary 123:
Energy Union: national energy and climate plans (Regulation (EC) No 517/2014) (summary)
energy union: national and regional energy plans (Recast)
SUMMARY OF:
Implementing Regulation (EU) 2018/852 on the Energy Union
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
   
It sets out the energy policy objectives and targets for the EU and its Member States for the period 2018-2023.
It aims to:
ensure a resilient energy union with an ambitious climate policy at its core;
promote market integration, increased competition, the attainment of climate and energy objectives and the gradual shift towards a sustainable low-carbon economy.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation covers five dimensions:
energy security;
the internal energy market;energy efficiency;energy decarbonisation;research, innovation and competitiveness;
energy poverty;
research and innovation.
The objectives of the energy union are:
a secure, sustainable, competitive and affordable energy market for consumers and businesses;
a share of renewable energy consumed in the EU of at least 27% by 2030;
electricity interconnection of 15% of the EU’s electricity market;
an increase in the share of energy efficiency;
decarbonisation.
In order to achieve these objectives, Member States must:
improve the efficiency of energy production and distribution systems;
increase renewable energy consumption;
reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by at least 30%;
percentage of energy poverty in the Member States;
carbonise the energy economy;
by 2030, at least 25% of electricity interconnections;
improve energy efficiency in the European electricity market.
National energy plans
Member States should:
prepare an integrated national energy plan for each of the five dimensions of the Energy union;
inform the public of their national plans;
draw up public consultations on the objectives of their plans.
Public consultation
The Member States should ensure that the public is fully involved in the preparation of the national energy plans. They should also ensure the involvement of social partners in preparing the national plans, and aim to limit administrative complexity when fulfilling their obligations with regard to public consultation.
When carrying out public consultations, and in line with the Aar Convention, the public should be able to access all the information they need to make their views known, including:
the number of households in energy poverty, taking into account the necessary domestic energy services needed to guarantee basic standards of living in the relevant national context, existing social policy and other relevant policies, as well as Commission indicative guidance on relevant indicators, including geographical dispersion, that are based on a common approach for energy poverty.
Annex II to the regulation sets out a timetable for the preparation and publication of the first draft and final integrated national plans. The plan must be adopted by 31 December 2018. The Commission must inform the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions of the progress made by Member States towards achieving the objectives set out in the energy Union.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
It has applied since 1 January 2019.
BACKGROUND
 
  The Energy Union aims to give EU consumers, including households and businesses, secure and sustainable energy.
For more information, see:
The Energy Union (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Energy Union: an energy policy framework for Europe.
* Renewable energy: a renewable energy target for the European Union for 2030 of 32 % of the total energy consumed, including a review with a view to increasing the Union-level target by 2023 to 30%.
* Decarbonisation: a transition to a low carbon economy that reduces greenhouse gas emissions by as much as possible.
MAIN DOCUMENT
  i.e. implementing Regulation (EEC) no 652/2018 of the European Central Bank and of the Council of 21 December 2018 establishing a framework for the implementation of a resilient Energy Union and amending Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 852/2014 (summary).
* Regional energy cooperation: a European energy cooperation framework for North, South and West.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in Member States
Official Journal
Regulation(EU) No 608/2018
1.1.2019
-
OJ L 157, 1.1 of 1.2019.
RELATED DOCUMENTS

Communication from the Commission to the Council on the implementation, on behalf of the Commission, of the Framework Decision on the European Energy Union — Energy Union 2020 (COM(2018) 652 final - Not published in the Official Journal).
Commission communication of 18 November 2015 on the State of Energy Union, the Commission further specified that the Commission considers that integrated national policies, addressing all 5 dimensions of



Summary 124:
Eliminating persistent organic pollutants (POPs) in the environment: Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006 and Regulation (EU) No 528/2012 (Recast)
Elimination of persistent industrial pollutants in the EU
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1906/2006 on the control of POPs
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to eliminate the production, manufacture, placing on the market and use of persistent organometallic pollutants (‘pOPs’) and to reduce their release into the environment.
It recasts and repeals the previous regulation (Regulation No 1907 / 2006/2006/EC).
KEY POINTS
The regulation sets out rules on POPs, as well as on the listing of substances and the monitoring of waste containing POPs.
EU countries must:
ensure that POPs which are unintentional by-products of industrial processes are identified and reduced as soon as possible, with the ultimate aim of elimination, where feasible;
monitor and report regularly to the European Union Agency for Safety and Health at Work (Euratom).
Control of the production and manufacture of substances listed in Annex II, whether on their own, in mixtures or in articles, must be restricted, subject to a concentration limit of 500 mg/kg. The maximum concentration limit is set by the European Commission and the European Agency for the Protection of Life and Health of the Environment (EPHA).
The European Commission must review that concentration limit in the light of scientific and technical progress and, where appropriate, and adopt a legislative proposal to lower it to 500mg/kg by 16 July 2021 and, in any event, not later than 16 July 2023.
In addition, EU countries are required to:
report regularly, in standardised form, to the EEA on POP inventories, notified stockpiles and the manufacturing and placing on market of restricted substances;
keep a record of all POPs that have been manufactured, manufactured or placed on the EU market;
report to the Commission, the European Parliament and the Council regularly on the implementation of this regulation.
The Commission may adopt measures concerning waste management and the minimum information to be provided by EU countries in monitoring the implementation.
Evaluation of the regulation’s implementation
In order to ensure uniform conditions for the implementation, the Commission has established the Information Platform for Chemical Monitoring. It is responsible for:
monitoring the implementation and monitoring of the Regulation;
assisting the Commission in drawing up, implementing and updating its implementation plans;
coordinating with the European Environment Agency (EEA) and the national authorities of EU countries on waste management;
ensuring that waste is not disposed of as hazardous waste.
Monitoring of waste and monitoring measures
The EEA and the EU countries must ensure that waste and waste-related measures are implemented in accordance with the rules laid down in Directive 2008/98/EC on hazardous waste (see summary).
Waste management and monitoring
The waste management system should be based on a standardised reporting system. It should include:
the reporting of waste to the Agency and the Commission;
the monitoring and reporting of the quantities of waste that are disposed of;
reporting of the total amount of waste;
a system for monitoring and monitoring POPs and waste containing waste; and
a monitoring system for the monitoring and control of waste-containing substances.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
Directive 2008/96/EC has applied since 16 July 2006. The regulation had to become law in the Member States by 16 June 2007.
BACKGROUND
The EU is seriously concerned by the continuous release of persistent organic pollutant (POCs) into the EU. It has signed the Protocol and Convention on the Elimination of Persistent Organic Pollutants and the Convention on Biological Diversity.
For more information, see:
‘Persistent organic pollutants’ on Euratom's website.
KEY TERMS
* POPs: organic pollutants: any substance that is a by-product of an industrial process.
* Concentration limit: the maximum concentration of an organic substance in a kilogram of solid, liquid or powder.
ACT
Council Regulation (EURatom) no 1906/06/2006 of 16 June 2006 laying down the rules for the control, manufacture and use, and the list of substances (OJ L 127, 16.7.2006, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (e.g. Annex II) have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 16.01.2021



Summary 125:
Single-use plastic products: reducing their impact on the environment and human health (Directive 2013/34/EU)
Single-usable plastic products (Directives 2013/35/EU and 2013/36/EU).
SUMMARY
WHAT DOES THIS DIRECTIVE DO?
It aims to reduce the quantity of plastic waste generated in the European Union (EU) and to tackle the problem of marine litter.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The directive applies to all plastic products that are found the most on beaches in the EU as well as fishing gear containing plastic and products made from oxo-degradable plastic.
It does not apply to:
glass and metal beverage containers;
plastic fishing gear;
single-use drinking containers and lids made of plastic;
conformity with the EU’s legislation on the labelling and labelling of foodstuffs;
non-toxic plastic packaging materials.
Producers’ responsibility
EU Member States are required to ensure that producers of certain single-use products cover the costs associated with their production and disposal. They must also take responsibility for the environmental impact of their products and ensure that they are properly disposed of.
They must also ensure that their products are reusable and that they can be reused and recycled.
Labelling requirements
Beverage containers, lids and plastic fishing gear are subject to labelling requirements. The labels must be clearly visible, legible and clearly visible. The packaging must also bear the following information:
the number of times they have been used;
the quantity of waste they have generated and disposed of
the amount of litter they have caused.
the total amount of plastic that has been thrown into the environment.
The packaging must be designed to be reusable, reusable or recyclable.
If a product is not reusable, it must bear a marking indicating that it has been reused, reused or recycled. The label must also indicate that it can be recycled or reused.
Manufacturers must ensure that the packaging they make conforms with the requirements laid down in the directive and that it meets the requirements of the European Strategy for Plastics (see summary).
The European Commission must review the directive in the light of the relative properties of different packaging materials, including composite materials, on the basis of life cycle assessments, addressing in particular waste prevention and design for circularity.
In addition, Member States must take measures to prevent the spread of plastic litter in the marine environment and to reduce its impact on human health and the economy.
FROM WHEN DOES THE DIRECTIVE APPLY?
Directive 2012/35 has applied since 1 January 2013. It had to become law in the Member States by 1 January 2015.
BACKGROUND
The EU has adopted a number of measures to tackle plastic pollution, including Directive 2008/98/EC on plastic waste. These have been amended several times, most recently by Directive 2014/13/EU.
For more information, see:
‘Plastic pollution’ on the European Commission's website.
MAIN DOCUMENT
   
  барканска накова грака   глаксанда
Council Directive 2013/33/EU of 21 December 2013 on the reduction of plastic pollution (OJ L 183, 1.1.2013, pp. 1-18)
last update 04.02.2016



Summary 126:
EU trade mark protection — rules for goods and services (codified Regulation (EU) No 608/2013)
EU Trade mark protection rules — codified Regulation
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 652/2013 on the registration of trade marks
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It lays down rules for the registration and protection of EU trade marks.
It aims to open up unrestricted economic activity in the whole of the internal market for the benefit of undertakings.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to trade marks which are governed by a uniform EU law directly applicable in all EU countries. It does not apply to national trade marks or trade names.
Applicants for protection must submit an application for protection to the European Commission. The application must be accompanied by a declaration of the goods or services for which the trade mark is sought.
The Commission decides whether the protection is sought only as a national trade mark in one or more EU countries, or only as an EU trade mark, or both.
EU trade marks are granted exclusive rights for the duration of their protection. The proprietor of a trade mark does not have the right to prohibit the use of signs or indications by third parties which are used fairly and thus in accordance with honest practices in industrial and commercial matters.
Rights conferred on the proprietor
The proprietor has exclusive rights to:
use a sign in comparative advertising where such comparative advertising is contrary to specific EU legislation;
the use of a sign or indication in advertising where comparative advertising does not conform with the EU legislation.
Use of the trade marks in the form in which it is registered should not alter the distinctive character of the mark;
use of a mark in a form that differs in elements which do not alter its distinctive character.
Enforcement of the rights conferred by an EU Trade Mark
The trade mark may be enforced against any third party that uses it in a manner which is contrary, in principle or in practice, to the rules of the European Union (EU).
The rights conferred on proprietors must be enforced without prejudice to the rights of proprietors acquired prior to the filing or priority date of the registration.
Application procedure
The applicant must apply for protection in writing to the competent authorities and economic operators of the EU countries in order to enable them to determine the extent of the protection applied for. The applicant must provide the Commission with the information necessary to determine whether the application is valid. The Commission may reject the application if it considers that the application does not comply with the rules laid down in the regulation.
If the Commission considers that an application is not valid, it must inform the applicant of the reasons for rejecting the application.
In addition, the Commission must ensure that the applicant is informed of the procedure for granting or revoking the protection granted to the applicant.
Where the applicant fails to comply with this procedure, the applicant may be subject to administrative proceedings before the European Court of Auditors.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
The Regulation has applied since 1 January 2014 and had to become law in the EU Member States by 1 January 2016.
BACKGROUND
The EU is the world’s largest single market for trade marks and the Commission has adopted a number of measures to open it up to competition.
For more information, see:
Trade marks (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Trade mark: a trade name used to describe a product or service.
ACT
Commission Implementing Regulation (Euratom), Euratom, of 21 December 2013 laying down rules concerning the registration, protection and enforcement of EU Trade Marks (Codified version).
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Directive 2013/8/EU
1.1.2014
-
OJ L 347, 21.12.2013, pp. 1-29
RELATED ACTS
Commission Regulation (EC) No 1237/2012 of 12 December 2012 laying down the rules on the establishment of a system of administrative procedures for the application for trade mark registration and the granting of protection in the field of trade marking and repealing Council Regulations (EC, EC, EC and EFTA) No 552/2004, (EC), (EC).
last update 04.02.2016



Summary 127:
Access to published works for persons who are blind, visually impaired or otherwise print-disabled
Access to Published Works for Persons who are Blind, Visually Impaired or Otherwise Print Disabled
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) 2017/1564 on the implementation of the Marrakesh Treaty to Facilitate Access To Published Works For Persons Who Are Blind, Visual Impaired, Or Print Disabled (OJ L 115, 17.4.2017)
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to improve the availability of accessible format copies for beneficiary persons in all of the EU countries and the circulation of such copies within the internal market.
The regulation applies to the following:
the making and dissemination of copies, in accessible formats, of certain works and other protected subject matter;
the import and use of these in the EU and in non-EU countries; and
the exchange and making available of information between authorised entities established in an EU country.
It does not apply to:
public institutions or non-profit organisations that provide the same services to beneficiary persons as one of its primary activities, institutional obligations or as part of its public-interest missions;
authorised entities that are a party to the treaty.
KEY POINTS
EU countries may:
make, communicate or make available, for non-commercial purposes, an accessible format copy of a work or other subject matter that has been distributed, communicated or made available to beneficiaries persons or to authorised entities, by an authorised entity established in a country that is a party of the treaty;
export, obtain or access, in accordance with the national legislation adopted pursuant to Directive (EU), an accessible-format copy of the same subject matter, from a third country, for the benefit of beneficiary persons or authorised entities in the same EU country;
use, for commercial purposes, the same conditions as those applicable to the import and import of these same subject matters from the same third country under the same national legislation.
Authorised entities may not:
distribute, communicate, make available available to the same beneficiary persons, or to an authorised body established in another EU country for the same purpose; or
make available to a person who is blind or visually impaired, or who is otherwise print disabled, a printed work that has not been distributed or communicated to them.
An authorised entity may also:
export or use, for a commercial purpose, a non-accessible-format version of the work or subject matter for the purpose of the exchange of information;
exchange and make available information on this subject matter to the beneficiary persons and authorised bodies established in other EU countries.
In addition, the regulation provides for the following exceptions to copyright and related rights:
for the making, dissemination, making available, importing and using of accessible formats of the works and subject matter covered by this regulation, and for the cross-border exchange of those copies.
Exceptions and limitations to copyright, related rights and exceptions to certain exceptions to the protection of personal data:
exceptions or limitations to certain rights that are harmonised by Directive 2001/29/EC and Directive 2017/1664 (see summary);
exclusions or limitations of certain rights and rights to certain subject matter contained in Directive 2002/679/EC, as well as in Directive (EC) No 552/2004 on the protection and protection of the personal data of persons with disabilities, and repealing Directives 1/46/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council, and Directive 1/58/EC on the Protection of the Personal Data of Persons with Disabilities, and Directives 2001/30/EC or 2001/37/EC concerning the transmission and transmission of personal communications, and on the processing of such communications.
Amendments to the regulation have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
References
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Directive (EU).
-
OJ. L 115 of 17.3.2017.
RELATED ACTS
Commission Implementing Regulation of 11 October 2023 laying down the conditions for the implementation by Member States, on the behalf of the Union, of the Treaty on the Functioning and the Union of the Rights of Persons With Disabilities on the Facilitation of Access to Published Work for Persons Who are Blind or Visually Indispensable, or otherwise Print Disabled, and amending Regulations (EC, EEC, EC, EC and EFTA) No 496/2004, (EC), No 556/2004 and (EC).
Commission Regulation (EU, EFTA, EC) No 696/2005 of 11 September 2005 laying down a uniform procedure for the exchange and use by authorised entities of information on the access to published work for persons with disability, as set out in the annex to this consolidated version.
last update 27.02.2021



Summary 128:
Enforcement of EU consumer protection legislation
En enforcement of Union consumer protection legislations
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) 2017/849 on the enforcement of consumer protection law
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to improve the effectiveness of the EU’s anti-fraud legislation by strengthening the powers of EU countries’ authorities to detect, investigate and prohibit cross-border infringements.
It also aims to ensure that EU countries can cooperate effectively and in a timely manner.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to all goods or services that are traded in the EU and that have a European dimension. It does not apply to:
distance contracts;
contracts with third parties;
travel arrangements;
online services.
EU countries must notify the European Commission of suspected infringements and the competent authorities of all EU countries, through their single liaison offices, of any infringement with a Union dimension.
If the Commission has a reasonable suspicion that a widespread infringement has occurred, it should notify the EU countries and the single liaison office concerned by that infringement, stating the grounds which justify a possible coordinated action in the notification.
The competent authorities should coordinate their investigation and enforcement measures in order to tackle effectively the widespread infringement or widespread infringement with an EU dimension and to bring about its cessation or prohibition.
Where appropriate, the outcome of the investigation and the assessment of the infringement should be set out in a common position agreed among the EU country authorities.
Penalties
The European Commission has the power to impose penalties for infringements covered by the regulation. These include:
a ban on the sale of the goods covered by this regulation;
a prohibition of the intra-EU infringement.
In addition, the Commission may decide to impose fines on the trader responsible for the infringement. It may also decide to grant the trader additional remedial commitments for the benefit of consumers that have been affected by the infringement, or to seek to obtain commitments from the trader to offer adequate remedies to the consumers.
Cooperation between EU countries
The Commission and EU countries must ensure that:
the competent authorities have the necessary means and powers to cooperate with each other;
the Commission and the national authorities have access to the information and evidence they need to detect and stop infringements;
all EU countries have the right to set up a coordinated action to tackle infringements with a EU dimension, and to send a report to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions on the implementation of this regulation.
Consumers’ rights
EU citizens’ organisations, and where appropriate trader associations, should be allowed to notify competent authorities in their EU countries of infringements, to share with them the information they have received and to provide them with the information needed to detect infringements or to stop them. They should also be able to provide the Commission with information on infringements that have occurred in the digital environment.
When a trader is found guilty of an infringement, it must inform the authorities of the country in which the infringement took place and inform them of the reasons for that infringement. The competent authorities must also inform the European Court of Justice of the European Union (ECJ) of the case and the Court of Auditors of the ECJ of the Member States concerned. The ECJ will decide whether to hear the case on the basis of the common position adopted by the EU Member States.
Implementing powers
The implementing powers of the regulation comply with other EU and national law, including with applicable procedural safeguards and principles of the fundamental rights. They also comply with Directive 2000/31/EC on personal data protection and with Regulation (EC) No 2006/2004 on the protection of consumers’ information.
Exemptions
The EU countries may exclude from the regulation the following from the scope of the powers conferred on them by the Regulation:
an obligation to inform the Commission or the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) of any suspected infringement;
any obligation on a trader to notify the competent authority of a Member State of a suspected infringement or to inform OLAF of any other Member State in which an infringement has taken place;
requests to be made by a consumer organisation or a trader association to inform an EU country of an alleged infringement; and
any obligations on a consumer association or trader association, or any other person concerned, to provide information to the Commission, the OAF or to the Member State concerned of any infringements they have committed.
References
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in Member States
Official Journal
Directive 2001/36/EC
27.12.2001
-
OJ L 347, 27.12 of 27.01.2001, pp. 1-2
RELATED ACTS
Regulations (EC, No 2006 /2004)
Directives 2001/34/EC and 2001/35/EC of the Parliament and



Summary 129:
In vitro diagnostic medical devices: safety and quality requirements
In vitro diagnostics: quality and safety requirements
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 1025/2012 on the regulation of in vitro diagnostic Medical Devices and their accessories
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out the rules for the placing on the market and putting into service, as well as the monitoring and control of these devices.
It aims to ensure a high level of safety and health for patients and users.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to all medical devices manufactured and used only within health institutions, including hospitals, laboratories and public health institutes that support the health care system and/or address patient needs, but which do not treat or care for patients directly. It does not apply to devices manufactured in series production.
Manufacturers must ensure that the devices they manufacture comply with the general safety and performance requirements and other legal requirements, such as those relating to quality and risk management, laid down in this regulation. They must also have a quality management system and a post-market surveillance system in place.
EU countries may decide on a case-by-case basis whether a specific product, category or group of products falls within the scope of the regulation.
Importers must notify the European Commission and the European Union Agency for Harmonised Quality Assurance (EQA) if they believe that a device does not conform to the requirements of this regulation or that it poses a risk to public health and safety.
The Commission may decide that a product is not covered by the regulation if it meets certain conditions.
In addition, the Commission may, on its own initiative or at the duly substantiated request of an EU country, consult the Medical Device Coordination Group (MDCG), decide whether or not a specific device falls under the regulation’s scope.
Equal treatment of all products
The MDCG is responsible for the harmonisation of the rules on the qualification of medical devices. It is assisted by the European Medicines Agency (EMAA).
The EQA assists the Commission in ensuring that the regulation is applied uniformly throughout the EU and that it is implemented in line with EU law.
Exemptions from the regulation
The Regulation does not cover:
medical devices manufactured or used only in health institutions (e.g. hospitals);
general laboratory products and products for research use only;
general medical devices, general laboratory products, products for testing only.
For manufacturers who are not established in the EU, the authorised representative plays a pivotal role in ensuring the compliance of the devices produced by those manufacturers and in serving as their contact person.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULATIONS APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 January 2013.
BACKGROUND
 
 Â  Â
     
  ICD-10 has been the subject of a number of amendments since its entry into force. Regulation (EC) No 765/2008 (see summary) has been amended several times, most recently by Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 552/2014.
This regulation is the first to establish a harmonised regulatory framework for in vitro-diagnostic medical devices (IVMDs).
For more information, see:
In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* In vitro diagnostic device: a medical device that can be used to diagnose, test and monitor the presence or absence of a biological substance or biomarker (i.e. a substance that is present in healthy subjects or in patients).
* General laboratory product: a laboratory product that can detect, test for, or demonstrate the presence of biological substances or biomarkers.
* Software: a software that is specifically intended by the manufacturer to be used for one or more of the medical purposes set out in the definition of an IVMD.
** Software intended for well-being purposes: software for general purposes, even when used in a healthcare setting, or software intended for health-related purposes.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Commission Implementing Decision 2013/852/EU
1.1.2013
-
OJ L 127, 1.1 of 13.2013, pp. 1-34
Amending act(s)
last update 27.02.2016



Summary 130:
Ensuring that appliances and fittings comply with the new approach to technical harmonisation and standards (Regulation (EU) No 1025/2012)
Ensembles and fitting — ensuring that they comply with Directive 2009/142/EC
Importers and distributors must ensure that they only make available on the market appliances or fittings which are in conformity with this regulation.
SUMMARY OF:
Implementing Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2018/852 — rules on the conformity assessment of appliances and fitting
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to harmonise the technical requirements for the sale, importation and putting into service of appliances* and fitting* in the European Union (EU).
It sets out the essential requirements and conformity assessment procedures to be followed by EU Member States.
The regulation applies to:
imports and imports of appliances from non-EU countries, whether new or second-hand, imported from a third country;
manufacturers and importers of appliances or fitting imported from outside the EU.
It does not cover risks caused by appliances in the case of incorrect installation, maintenance or use.
KEY POINTS
Scope of the regulation
It applies to all types of gas used in the manufacture, manufacture, operation, testing and installation of appliances, including:
natural gas;
biogas;
combustion products;
electrical appliances;
conformity assessment procedures.
EU Member States must take the necessary measures to ensure that:
the appliance or fitting complies with the requirements laid down in the regulation;
the manufacturer or importer has carried out a conformity assessment;
an appliance or a fitting has been placed on the EU market by the manufacturer or the importer;
it has been certified by the competent authority of the Member State in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 765/2008 on conformity assessment.
Member States must:
ensure that the manufacturer, importer, distributor or any other economic operator who has supplied them with an appliance or with a fitting does not keep the information required for the identification of other economic operators who have either supplied them or to whom they have supplied an appliance;
make available to the public the information to identify all the economic operators involved in the supply and distribution chain;
take the necessary precautionary safety measures in relation to the health and safety risks related to combustion products and the need for the public to be made aware of these risks.
In addition, Member States should ensure that the gas supply conditions do not constitute barriers to trade and that appliances that are compatible with the local gas conditions are put into service.
Consumers must be able to easily identify the type of gas and the corresponding supply pressures used on their territory and certain essential requirements. They should also be informed of the type and quantity of the gas that is supplied to them.
Manufacturers, importers, distributors and any economic operators that are involved in supplying the appliance or the fitting must ensure the information they provide is accurate and up-to-date. They must also inform the Member States of the quality of the supplied gas in the event that it does not remain within the already communicated quality range. The Member States are required to inform the European Commission, the European Atomic Energy Agency (EIA) and the Committee of the Regions of the technical characteristics of the gaseous fuel used in their territory.
National authorities must ensure:
that the appliance and the fitting are accompanied by a CE conformity assessment and that the appliance bears the CE conformity marking indicating that it meets all essential requirements;
that they have carried out the necessary conformity assessment, and that they have notified the Commission of the results of the assessment and notified the European Parliament and the Council of the European Economic and Social Committee (EEC).
The appliance and fitting must be accompanied by an electronic label affixed to it showing that it conforms to the regulation. The label must be affixed in a language easily understood by end-users and must bear the following information:
type of gas supplied;
number of hours of operation;
pressure of the supply;
volume of use;
frequency of operation.
If the appliance does not conform to the requirements, it must bear a CE marking affixed on it.
Where a Member State considers that an appliance is not complying with the regulation, it should inform the Commission and the EIA of the reasons for this. The Commission must inform the EEA of the reason for its decision and inform the Council and the other Member States as soon as possible.
Directive 2009/28/EC requires Member States to introduce in their building regulations and codes appropriate measures in order to increase the share of all kinds of energy from renewable sources in the building sector. These measures must progressively reduce energy consumption in different areas, including in buildings.
This regulation lays down the rules for the harmonisation of the rules on energy efficiency and the use of renewable sources of energy.
FROM WHEN DOES



Summary 131:
Cross-border transport of euro cash by road: rules for professional cash-in-transit (CIT) companies
Cross-Border transport of Euro cash — rules for professionals
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 1072/2009 on the professional cross-border Transport of Euro Cash by Road between participating Member States
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes the rules for the transport of euros by road by professional cash handlers in the European Union (EU).
It aims to improve the security of euro-denominated euro cash and to harmonise the rules on the application of these rules.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to:
cross-border CIT deliveries/pick-ups;
point-to-point transport;
the transport of cash in transit;
categories of CIT vehicles.
Crossing-border cross-Border CIT licence
The CIT vehicle must have a valid licence issued by the competent authority in the Member State of origin of the CIT company in which it is established. It must be accompanied by a copy of the national CIT security certificate.
The driving licence must be valid for a minimum of 5 years.
CIT security staff must be able to carry out the following tasks:
transport euro cash;
carry out euro cash deliveries;
deliver euro cash to, from, to, to or through a CIT cash centre;
take euro cash from, or to a cash point to, a cash centre in another Member State during the same day;
make euro deliveries to, or from, the same CIT centre in the same Member State;
collect euro cash at the same time in the host Member State.
exchange of information between CIT companies.
Minimum protection rules
Minimum rates of pay, including overtime rates, must be guaranteed for the duration of the whole working day in order not to impose an unnecessary administrative burden on the operators.
In addition, minimum protection rules must be applied to the minimum levels of language skills and the level of security of the staff involved in CIT transport.
Exemptions
The rules on minimum protection apply to the following the implementation of Directive 96/71/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on the minimum protection of workers in the transport sector (see summary).
The Regulation also applies to the general rules on information cooperation between the Member States.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
It entered into force on 1 July 2009.
BACKGROUND
   
 
For more information, see:
Euro cash transport (European Commission).
* KEY TERMS
* CIT: a professional cash handling company that offers the best price and/or service and is able to take advantage of the cash services of the nearest national central bank (NCB) branch or cash centre, even if it is located in another EU country.
* Cross-border cash transport: the transport by road of euros in transit between Member States of the euro area.
MAIN DOCUMENT
  i.e. the regulation establishing the rules concerning the professional crossing-border Cross-Border Transport of euro Cash Transport by Road of professional CIT Companies (OJ L 183, 1.7.2009, pp. 1-18)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EC), as amended, have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 04.02.2021



Summary 132:
Food information: mandatory nutrition declaration for foods and non-prepacked foods (Regulation (EC) No 552/2006)
Food information : mandatory nutrition designation for foods
SUMMARY OF:
Implementing Regulation (EU) 2016/852 laying down the general principles and requirements of food law
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It lays down common rules for the provision of food information to consumers.
It aims to streamline and modernise food information law in order to ensure easier compliance and greater clarity for stakeholders and to take account of new developments in the field of nutrition information.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to all foods in the European Union (EU).
It does not apply to:
alcoholic beverages;
foods such as meat, fish and fishery products;
prepackaged foods;
meat and fish;
vegetables;
eggs and poultry;
fruit and vegetables;
fish and beef;
animal feed.
Foods that may be exempted from the obligation to provide information on ingredients and nutrition must be labelled in a language easily understood by the consumer.
EU countries must ensure that the declaration is legible and legible.
The declaration must contain:
a description of the composition of the food;
an indication of the amount of the product to be consumed;
a list of the ingredients and the quantities to be added to the declaration.
a statement of the quantities of the products to be taken from the product.
In addition, the declaration must state:
the amount of food to be eaten;
the quantity of food in the form of the declaration;
how the product is prepared and packed.
the number of grams of food and the quantity of portion-based declarations.
Exemptions
Certain foods may be exempt from the declaration, such as alcoholic beverages and certain prepacked foods.
However, alcoholic beverages may be subject to a declaration on ingredients or nutrition information to alcoholic beverages. This declaration must be in the same form as that for foods such as beer, wine, cider and wine-based drinks. The declaration must also state that the product has been frozen and later defrosted and that the freezing and defrosting of certain foods limits their possible further use and may also have an effect on their safety, taste and physical quality.
National authorities must:
ensure that the statement of ingredients and of the amounts of food ingredients are clearly visible on the label;
check that the information is clearly legible;
assist the food business operators and enforcement authorities in complying with the requirements of the regulation;
report to the European Commission within 3 years of the entry into force of this regulation concerning the application of the requirements to the disclosure of certain information. The Commission should, taking into account the need to ensure coherence with other relevant EU policies, produce a report within 3 year of the application.
References
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Directive 2006/24/EC
1.8.2016
-
OJ L 127 of 1.8 of the same day.
RELATED ACTS
Commission Decision 2006/48/EC of 29 April 2006 laying down rules on food information and on the presentation of animal feed and on animal welfare (Official Journal L 136 of 29.4.2006).
Regulation 2006/23/EC on the establishment of the European Food Safety Authority and laying down procedures in matters of food safety and on food health and welfare.
Commission Delegated Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 852/2004 of 29 March 2004 laying down specific rules on animal feed, animal welfare and animal welfare claims and on nutritional information for food and feed products.
Council Decision 2004/848/Euratom of 28 April 2004 laying out specific rules concerning animal welfare, animal health and animal feed claims, animal nutrition and on nutrition information for animal feed products and on health claims for animal welfare products. The regulation also lays down rules concerning the presentation and presentation of the animal feed in the official form of official documents.
Communication from the Commission to the Council and the European Parliament, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions on the implementation of the Regulation on Food Information (COM(2006) 652/2008).
Commission Communication of 30 May 2007 on a Strategy for Europe on Nutrition, Overweight and Obesity related health issues (the ‘Commission White Paper’) noted that nutrition labelling is one of the most important methods of informing consumers about the composition and of helping them to make an informed choice.
Last updated: 22.07.2007



Summary 133:
Issuance of euro coins and euro banknotes
Issuation of euros and euro banksnotes
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 974/98 on the introduction of the euro
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out the rules for the issuance of coins and banknotes in the European Union (EU).
It aims to ensure uniform rules for euro coin and banknote issuances.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to all EU countries whose currency is the euro.
EU countries may issue two types of euro coin: circulation coins and collector coins.
The following definitions apply:
circulation coins: euro coins intended for circulation, the denominations and technical specifications of which are laid down in Regulation (EC), No 975/98;
collector coins, which are intended for collection that are not issued with a view to their entry into circulation.
Collector coins: coins that are intended to be put on the market at or above face value. They must not have a shaped edge with fine scallops or a ‘Spanish flower’ shape.
There are limits on the number of 2-euro commemorative coins that can be issued per issuing EU country per year and per issuing country for the total number of issues of such coins. These limits must not exceed 0.1 % of the cumulated total net number of 1- and 2-cent coins put into circulation by EU countries up to the beginning of the year preceding the end of the calendar year.
Consultation prior to the destruction of circulation coins which are not euro coins unfit for circulation within the meaning of point (b) of Article 2 of Regulation (EU) No 1210/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 December 2010 concerning authentication, handling and handling of euro notes.
In addition, EU countries must consult each other via the relevant subcommittee of the Economic and Financial Committee and inform the mint directors of the EU countries.
FROM WHEN DOES THE REGULE APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 January 1998 and had to become law in the EU Member States by 1 January 2002.
BACKGROUND
The euro has been the subject of a number of legislative acts, including:
Delegated Regulation (Euratom) No 552/2008 on the euro and its legal tender status;
Council Delegated Regulations (EC, Euratom, EEC, EEA, EFS, ESI, ESM and ESI).
For more information, see:
‘The euro’ on the European Commission’s website.
MAIN DOCUMENT
  Еграшка 
Council Regulation (ec) No 999/98 of 3 May 1998 on the adoption of the single currency (OJ C 273, 16.9.1998, pp. 1-2)
Successive amendments to Regulation (e) No 99/98 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
 
  i.e. Regulation (ES) No 1096/2008 of the Parliament and the Council on the establishment of a European Monetary Fund and repealing Council Regulations (e.g. Council Regulations No 973/98, No 976/98 and No 982/98) and Council Directives 98/8/EC, 98/9/EC and 98/10/EC of the Central Bank of the Member States meeting within the Council and the European Economic and Social Committee, and Council Decisions No 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 24 and 25 of the same day.
Commission Implementing Decision 2011/852/EU of 30 November 2011 laying down the conditions for the continued issuance of 1-, 2- and 3-euro coins and of 3- and 4- and 5- and 6- and 7- and 8- and 9- and 10- and 11- and 12- and 13- and 14- and 15- and 16-and-12-year-old euro coins, as well as on the use of different denominations of euro-denominated banknotes, as currently devised, and amending Regulation (es) No 1/2002, No 1098/2008, No 1169/2008 and No 1172/2008 (O J L 347, 29.11.2011, pp.).
last update 04.01.2016



Summary 134:
European Social Fund (ESF) — missions and scope of activities, including the Youth Employment Initiative (YEI) and the types of expenditure eligible for assistance.
European social fund (ESSF)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 1081/2006 establishing the missions of the European Social Fund
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes the ESF’s missions and the scope of its activities.
The ESF is the European Union's (EU) social fund. Its main objective is to support EU countries in pursuing the priorities and headline targets of the EU strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth (the ‘Europe 2020 strategy’).
It also aims to promote employment, improve access to the labour market and support voluntary labour mobility.
KEY POINTS
The objectives of ESF activities are to:
promote employment and social inclusion;
fight against poverty;
improve the quality of education and training;
ensure the protection of human health and the protection against social exclusion;
contribute to the sustainable recovery of the economy.
EU countries are responsible for the implementation of the Europe 2020 strategy. The ESF contributes to this by:
providing financial support to the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF);
contributing to the development of regional and local policies in the fields of education, training and skills upgrading;
promoting social inclusion and the fight against poverty.
Funding
The regulation sets out the specific objectives of the ESSF, including:
the creation of jobs and training opportunities for young people;
the improvement of social protection systems;
support for the social inclusion of disadvantaged people and the reintegration of female victims of violence into society.
Scope
The European social fund is financed by the European Investment Bank (EIB) and its Member States. The EIB is responsible for:
supporting Member States’ efforts to achieve the objectives set out in Article 9 TFEU (the European Pillar of Social Rights);
financing the activities of the regional development fund (EIF);
support the European Network of Employment Services (EURES) in relation to recruitment and related information, advice and guidance services at national and cross-border level;
fostablishing the European network of employment services (ENES);
fostering cross-sectoral and territorial partnerships.
Eligible expenditure
The EIF is funded by the EIB, the EIF and the EU countries’ regional development funds. It may also be financed by other sources, such as the EU budget.
It may be used for the following purposes:
to:
finance research and development (R&D) projects;
provide technical assistance;
facilitate the exchange of best practice and best practice in the field of training and education;
assist Member States in developing and implementing training policies and programmes;
encourage the creation of networks of experts in the areas of employment, social protection and training.
In addition, the regulation establishes a common set of output and result indicators based on the results of the actions supported by ESF. These include:
participation of young people in employment and training initiatives;
recruitment and training of workers;
employment of workers in the social economy;
employability of workers, enterprises and entrepreneurs;
transnational geographical mobility of workers.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
It entered into force on 1 July 2006.
BACKGROUND
   
The purpose of the regulation is to set out the missions, the scope and the type of expenditure that may be financed.
For more information, see:
‘The European Social fund’ on the European Commission's website.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1108/2006 of 21 May 2006 establishing the mission and scope, the specific provisions and the categories of expenditure to be made available for assistance under the ESI (OJ L 127, 28.5.2006, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EEC) no 1108 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 25.02.2021



Summary 135:
Demographic statistics at European level: data on population and vital events (2013-2018)
Demography statistics at EU level: information on population
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 1059/2003 on European demographic statistics
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes the European Union (EU) Member States’ obligations to provide the European Commission (Eurostat) with data on the total population at national level at the reference time.
It sets out the data and metadata exchange standards for the European Statistical System (ESS).
KEY POINTS
EU Member States must provide Eurostat with the data on their usually resident population. The data cover population by age, sex and region of residence.
The data must cover:
live births by sex, month of occurrence, live birth-order, mother’s age, mother's year of birth, country of citizenship and mother's region or country of residence;
deaths by age and sex, year of residence, region or region, country, citizenship and country of nationality;
vital events, such as births, deaths and births of children, marriages, divorces, deaths of unmarried couples and deaths of children under the age of 18.
Eurostat must transmit the data to the Commission within 8 months of the end of the reference year. The first reference date is in 2013 and the last reference date reference period referred to in 2018, as appropriate.
Member States must report to Eurostat on reference metadata, using the European statistical system (ESSS).
The Commission must keep the Commission informed of any changes to the data provided by the Member States.
National statistics must be based on the same concepts as those provided by Eurostat. The Commission must use scientific-based and well-documented statistical estimation methods, where appropriate, and use the NUTS classification.
In order to ensure uniform conditions for the implementation of this regulation, implementing powers should be conferred on the Commission.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLACE?
The regulation applies from 1 January 2013.
BACKGROUND
The European Commission is responsible for the collection, transmission and analysis of national statistics.
For more information, see:
‘European demographic statistics’ on Eurostat's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Total population: the number of people living in a given Member State and the total number of deaths in that Member State.
ACT
Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1024/2003 of 21 December 2003 establishing the European System of Territorial Units (NUTS) (OJ L 218, 31.12.2003, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to the regulation have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED ACTS
Commission Implementing Regulation (EU, Eurostat) No 223/2009 of 20 December 2009 laying down the rules for the transmission of statistics to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee on the Functioning of the European Atomic Energy Community (EEC) of the Regions and repealing Council Regulation No 862/2007 and Council Regulations No 763/2008 and No 852/2008 of the same name.
last update 14.02.2021



Summary 136:
Textile fibre names and related labelling and marking of fibre composition of textile products (Regulation (EC) No 765/2008 on the use of textile fibre names, rules concerning the labelling or marking of textiles containing non-textile parts of animal origin and rules concerning quantitative analysis of binary and ternary textile fibre mixtures, with a view to improving the functioning of the internal market and to providing accurate information to consumers.
Textile fibres
Textiles must bear the following information on their packaging:
the name of the fibre;
the fibre composition;
a description of the process employed to manufacture the product.
Manufacturers, or other persons acting on their behalf, who wish to add a new textile fibre name to the annexes to this regulation, must include in the technical file to be submitted with their application available scientific information concerning possible allergic reactions or adverse effects of the new fibre on human health, including results of tests conducted to that effect in compliance with relevant EU legislation.
Labelling
The regulation sets out the methods of labelling, marking and analysis for certain textile products consisting of two or more components, and also specifies the components that need not be taken into account for the purposes of the tests carried out. It also sets out a list of products exempt from the general labelling requirements, in particular with respect to disposable products or products for which only inclusive labelling is required.
EU countries must ensure that the methods used for official tests are uniform, as regards both the pre-treatment of the sample and its quantitative analysis.
FROM WHEN DOES THE REGULATION APPLACE OF ENTRY INTO FORCELEVEL
   
It entered into force on 1 July 2008.
BACKGROUND
The European Union (EU) has adopted a number of measures to ensure that textile products are safe for human consumption. These include:
rules for the use and labelling of textile fibres;
rules concerning the fibre composition and quantitative analysis for textile products;
requirements concerning the presence of non-animal origin on textile products containing such parts, in order to enable consumers to make informed choices.
For more information, see:
‘Textile products’ on the European Commission’s website.
KEY TERMS
* Textile product: any raw, semi-worked, worked, semimanufactured, manufactured, manufactured or semi-up or up product, regardless of its composition.
* Fibre: any fibre composed of one or more strands of cotton, wool, linen, rayon, polyester, cotton wool, woolen twill, cotton twill or woolen thread, and any other fibre that is not cotton.
ACT
Commission Implementing Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 768/2008 of 27 June 2008 laying down the rules concerning textile fibre names and relating labelling (OJ L 127, 1.7.2008, pp. 1-8)
last update 04.11.2016



Summary 137:
European Maritime Fund for Fisheries and Aquaculture (EMFF) (European Fisheries Fund)
European Maritime and Fisheries Fund (Eurofonds)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 1380/2013 on the European Maritime Fund and the European Fisheries Fund
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets up a single fund for the EU’s maritime and fisheries sector.
It supplements the European Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) and the Economic and Social Fund (ESI Funds).
KEY POINTS
The EMFF is the main fund for EU fisheries and aquaculture policy. It is managed by the European Union (EU).
It is funded by the Common Fisheries Policy (CFP).
The CFP covers the management of the oceans, seas, coastal regions and maritime sectors of the EU. It also covers the implementation of the International Maritime Organisation (IMO) and its programmes. The EMFF complements the CFP and the EAFRD.
The regulation sets out the EU priorities under the EMFF and a selection of measures. These include:
fishing, including:
the protection of marine biodiversity;
environmental protection;
the sustainable development of the marine environment;
energy efficiency;
fisheries and marine transport;
aquaculture.
In addition, the regulation also sets out:
monitoring and control of fishing activities;
protection of marine biological resources;
management of the maritime environment; and
the management of maritime transport and maritime transport.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULTRY APPLY?
From 1 January 2014.
   
It has applied since 1 January 2013.
BACKGROUND
The European Maritime and fisheries fund is one of the main instruments of EU fisheries policy. The other instruments are the European Agricultural Fund, the European Rural Development Fund, and the Eurofonds.
For more information, see:
EU fisheries policy — EMFF (European Commission).
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EC) No 1303/2013 of 21 December 2013 establishing the European Marine and fisheries Fund and laying down the rules for its operation.
Successive amendments and corrections to the regulation have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
Regulations (EC, Euratom) No 791/2007 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2007 laying down common provisions for the European Social Fund and for the Maritime Fund (see summary) and establishing Common Fisheries Fund, as well as establishing common provisions on the Maritime and Agricultural Fund (See summary).
Commission Implementing Regulation (Euratom) 2018/852 of 22 December 2018 laying down rules for the implementation and management of common provisions in the European Regional Development Fund.
Commission Decision 2014/856/EU of 23 November 2014 laying down detailed rules for implementing the common provisions of the Common Agricultural Fund and establishing the common provision for the maritime fund.
Council Implementing Decision (EURatom) 2019/853 of 22 November 2019 laying down specific rules on the implementation, management and coordination of the common scope of the Maritime, Fisheries Fund and implementing the European Environmental Fund (OJ L 347, 23.12.2019, pp. 1-24).
last update 04.01.2021



Summary 138:
Insurance investment products for retail investors
Insurance Investment Products for retail investor
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 552/2013 on the regulation of investment opportunities to retail investors (PRIIPs)
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes uniform rules on transparency at EU level for the marketing, distribution and sale of insurance investment products* to consumers.
It aims to ensure that the PRIIPs covered by the regulation are available to all retail investors.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to all insurance products that are manufactured by the financial services industry for the purpose of providing investment opportunities, where the amount repayable to the retail investor is subject to fluctuation because of exposure to reference values, or subject to the performance of one or more assets which are not directly purchased by the investor.
This regulation does not apply to:
individual and occupational pension products;
individual insurance accumulation or saving products that do not offer investment opportunities;
deposit products solely exposed to interest rates.
The key information document (KIC) must be written in a language easily understood by retail investors, and should be in a standardised format which allows retail investors to compare different products, since consumer behaviour and capabilities are such that the format, presentation and content of information must be carefully calibrated to maximise understanding and use of information.
Manufacturers must ensure that:
the PRIIP manufacturer uses clear and understandable language;
the description of how the investment targets are achieved, including the description of the financial instruments used, avoids financial jargon and terminology which is not immediately clear to investors;
there is a comprehension alert to alert retail investors if the product is not simple and may be difficult to understand.
PRIIP manufacturers must inform the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority (EIOPA) and the European Securities and Markets Authority (ESAs) of any amendments to the KIC and the key information documents they have prepared.
EU countries must designate the competent authorities responsible for that supervision.
In exceptional cases, the competent authority or the EIOPA may impose a prohibition or restriction before an insurance-based investment product has been marketed, distributed or sold to consumers, in order to protect the interests of the consumer and to ensure the proper functioning of the EU’s financial services market.
EIA and ESAs must:
ensure that the KICO and the KEY INFORMATION DOCUMENTS comply with the relevant EU rules;
make available to the public the information they have drawn up in accordance with this regulation;
provide the public with a list of the authorised persons authorised to act in the field of insurance and the information that they have provided to the EIA and to the ESAs;
take all necessary measures to prevent, investigate and prosecute any infringements of this regulation.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
 
   
It has applied since 1 January 2014.
BACKGROUND
  * KEY TERMS
* Insurance investment product: an investment product that is designed to provide investment opportunities.
* Key information document: a document containing information on the investment objectives of the investment product, the investment strategy and the risks associated with those objectives.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Directive 2013/26/EU
1.1.2014
-
OJ L 127, 1.2.2014, pp. 1-18
RELATED ACTS
  i.e. Regulation (EC) No 1082/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 December 2013 on the Regulation of Investment Opportunities to Retail Investors (PRI) (Official Journal L 136, 31.12.2013, p. 1)
last update 27.02.2016



Summary 139:
Resolution of failing banks within the EU
Resolving banks within EU
SUMMARY OF:
Directive 2014/59/EU on the resolution of banks
Regulation (EU) No 1024/2013 on the establishment of the Single Resolution Mechanism (SRM)
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DIRECTIVE AND THE REGULATION?
The directive establishes the European System of Supervision Mechanism, which aims to ensure effective resolution decisions for failing banks in the European Union (EU).
The regulation lays down the rules for the establishment and operation of the Supervisory System of the Member States (SSM).
KEY POINTS
The SSM is the EU’s centralised system of banking supervision and resolution. It is designed to prevent and resolve bank failures across the EU.
The resolution procedure is carried out by the European Bank Resolution Board (EBA), which is composed of the European Central Bank (ECB) and the national authorities of the participating Member States. The ECB is the supervisor of the SSM. The EBA is assisted by the supervisory board of the ECB and the European Financial Stability Facility (EFSA).
In the event of a bank failure, the resolution proceedings are handled by the competent national authorities. The resolution procedure must be coordinated by the EBA and the EFSF. The European Stability Mechanism is financed by bank contributions raised at national level and should be pooled at EU level in accordance with an intergovernmental agreement on the transfer and progressive mutualisation of those contributions (the ‘Agreement’.
EU countries will assume the obligation to transfer to the Fund the contributions that they raise at national levels.
A resolution decision may be made by the ECB or by the national competent authorities of a Member State of the EU country.
National authorities may take unilateral action to ring-fence banking operations, for instance by limiting intra-group transfers and lending, or by imposing higher liquidity and capital requirements on subsidiaries in their jurisdictions of potentially failing parent undertakings. However, national authorities may not take unilateral actions to resolve directly any credit institution of a participating Member State in order to avoid asymmetries within the internal market in respect of the treatment of failing institutions and creditors during a resolution process.
In addition, national supervisors have strong incentives to minimise the potential impact of bank crises on their national economies by adopting unilateral action, for example by limiting cross-border banking operations or imposing higher capital requirements for subsidiaries of a potentially failing Member State.
FROM WHEN DO THE DIRECTIVES AND REGULATIONS APPLY?
Directives 2014/58/EU and 2014/61/EU have applied since 1 January 2015.
Regulations (EU, Euratom) No 1096/2013 and (EU), No 1024 /2013 have applied from 1 January 2016.
Directions 2014/60/EU, 2014/65/EU (EU banking supervisor) and 2014 /65/EC have applied as of 31 December 2014.
Implementing Regulation (EU):
DirectIVE 2014/57/EU sets out the rules relating to the resolution procedure of banks across the Union and establishes a European Supervisory Mechanism and a European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) for the implementation of the resolution procedures.
Delegated Regulation (EC) No 596/2014 sets out rules on the application of the Resolution Procedure and the Supervision of the System of Banks (EU resolution procedure).
DeLegated Regulation(EU) 2018/852 amends Directive 2014/55/EU concerning the establishment, operation and management of the Solvency II Fund (EU financial stability fund) (EU bank resolution procedure) (see summary) (Directive 2018/1052/EU) (delegated regulation (EU and Euratom).
Commission Delegated Regulations (EC, EFSA) No 852/2014, 2018/1152 and 2018/1452 have applied to the European Banking Supervision Fund (ESM) as of 1 January 2019.
BACKGROUND
The European Union has adopted a number of measures to strengthen its financial stability. These include:
the establishment of a centralised supervisory system of supervision for banks;
the setting up of a European Financial Supervision Facility (ESMF);
the creation of a resolution procedure for banks.
For more information, see:
Resolution procedure (European Commission).
MAIN DOCUMENTS
 
    бараланска нарка  хранка (OJ L 304, 31.12.2014, pp. 1-2)
Directiv 2014/54/EU of the Council of 21 December 2014 on the Resolution of Banks within the Union, and implementing Regulation (Euratom, No 1098/2013) (Official Journal L 347, 30.11.2014).
Regulatory (EU)(EU) 2016/922/EU: Implementing Regulation



Summary 140:
Noise-related operating restrictions at European Union airports (Airports Regulation (EU) No 1234/2006)
Noise - related operating restrictions
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (Euratom) No 112/2006 on the application of Regulation (EC) No 852/2006 in the field of noise-related operational restrictions
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to reduce the noise impact from aircraft at EU airports.
It sets out the procedure for the introduction of operating restrictions.
KEY POINTS
EU countries must designate one or more competent authorities responsible for the process to be followed when adopting operating restrictions* at their airports. These authorities must be independent of any organisation which could be affected by the noise.
The regulation applies to all airports in the European Union (EU). It does not apply to airports in non-EU countries.
Airport authorities must ensure that:
noise assessments are carried out on a regular basis in accordance with Directive 2002/49/EC (see summary);
measures are selected according to objective and measurable criteria common to all EU countries;
the stakeholders are consulted in a transparent way on the intended actions;
no measures are adopted and sufficient notification is provided for;
implementation is implemented;
dispute resolution is ensured.
In addition, EU countries must notify the European Commission, in a timely manner, of the name and address of the designated appeal bodies and the arrangements for ensuring that an appeal body is appointed.
the names and addresses of the appeal bodies.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULTRY TO APPLY?
From 1 January 2007.
  
It has applied since 1 January 2008.
BACKGROUND
The Regulation applies to:
airports located in EU countries in which an airport as referred to in Article 2 of Article 2 is located;
airport authorities in the EU countries where the noisiest aircraft are located.
For more information, see:
Airports (European Commission).
REFERENCESPACT
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Commission Decision 2008/856/EC
1.1.01.2007
-
OJ L 328 of 1.01
Amending act(s)
Entry in force
Date of transposition into force
Official journal
Regulations (EC, EC) No 1082/2006, (EC), (ECA) No 982/2008, (EU), (EU, ECAC) No 582/2009 and (EU-wide) (ECB) No 683/2009
Directive 2006/93/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2006 on the implementation of the Balanced Approach to Air Traffic Management (see consolidated version).
last update 04.02.2016



Summary 141:
Cross-border insolvency proceedings: rules on the application of Regulation (EC) No 596/2006
Cross-Border insolvencies: rules applying to the administration of proceedings
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to improve the application by the European Union (EU) Member States of the regulation on cross-border judicial proceedings.
It sets out the rules applicable to proceedings which are triggered by situations in which the debtor faces non-financial difficulties, provided that such difficulties give rise to a real and serious threat to the debtor’s actual or future ability to pay its debts as they fall due.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to proceedings concerning a legal person or company which has been opened in a Member State other than that of its registered office. It does not apply to proceedings that are subject to publicity in order to allow creditors to become aware of the proceedings and to lodge their claims, thereby ensuring the collective nature of proceedings, and to give creditors the opportunity to challenge the jurisdiction of the court which has opened the proceedings. The regulation does not extend to proceedings where the debtor has moved from one Member State to another.
Creditors have the right to be heard in proceedings in the Member State in which they are located. The proceedings may also be referred to the Court of Justice of the European Economic Area (CEA) in the case of a person who has moved to another Member State. Creditors are entitled to a hearing before the Court in the new Member State where the proceedings have been opened.
The creditor has the right of access to the court of the new State where proceedings are opened. The creditor may also have a right to access the court in the country in which has jurisdiction over the proceedings in which it has been moved.
In addition, the creditor may be able to have a hearing in a Court of the same Member State as that of the debtor in the original Member State, if the debtor is carrying out an economic activity with human means and assets in that State, in accordance with the case-law of that State.
Appointments
The European Commission has published a report on the implementation of the Regulation. The report concludes that the regulation is functioning well in general but that it would be desirable to improve its application. It therefore calls on the Member States to adopt measures to ensure that proceedings are effective and efficient.
Amendments to the regulation
The Regulation has been amended several times. The most recent amendments to the Regulation have been incorporated into the original text. These amendments concern:
the application of the annexes to proceedings in relation to the establishment of a new State;
the introduction of measures to preserve the assets of a debtor; and
the establishment of proceedings for the preservation of the assets belonging to a debtor.
References
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in Member States
Official Journal
Regulation (EC, Euratom).
-
OJ L 347 of 20.11.2006
-   
Obligations of the Member states to apply the regulation.
Last updated: 27.07.2006



Summary 142:
Carriage of passengers and their luggage by sea: liability of the carrier and the passenger’s luggage
Carriage by sea
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 552/2008 on the liability of carriers for the carriage by sea of passengers
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It lays down the liability rules for carriage of passengers, their luggage and their baggage by sea carriers.
It applies to international transport only.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to:
passengers and their luggage on board ships of Classes A and B of the European Union (EU) and to ships of Class C and D under Article 4 of Directive 98/18/EC;
ships of Classes C, D and E of the EU, and to bareboat charter-out registration.
Liability of carriers
The liability of a passenger and his or her luggage carrier is governed by the Athens Convention relating to the Carriage of Passengers and Their Luggage by Sea, 1974 and the Protocol of 2002 to the Convention.
In the event of loss of, or damage to, mobility equipment or other specific equipment used by a passenger with reduced mobility, the carrier is liable for damages. It is not refundable, except in the cases set out in Article 3(1) or Article 6 of the Convention or Appendix A to the IMO Guidelines, or where the person who received it is not the person entitled to damages.
The carrier and performing carrier must provide passengers with at least the information contained in a summary of the provisions of this regulation prepared by the European Commission and made public.
Compensation in respect of damage caused to passengers
The passenger is entitled to compensation for:
the loss of mobility equipment and/or damage to his/her luggage;
the damage caused by the loss or damage of the passenger's luggage or the loss of the baggage or the damage to the cabin of the ship;
damage caused to the ship or to the baggage of the passengers or their luggage.
EU countries may decide to defer application of the regulation until 4 years after the date of its application.
Amendments to Regulation (EC, EC, EC) No 652/08
Amending Regulation (EU, EC and EC) 2018/852 amends Regulation (EEC) no 552(2008) to extend the scope of Article 4(2) of the Regulation to cover:
categories of passenger ships;
classifications of cabin and baggage; and
classification of the number of persons on board the ship.
FROM WHEN DOES THE LEGULATION APPLY?
   
It has applied since 31 December 2008.
BACKGROUND
 
  * KEY TERMS
* Carriage: a contract made by or on behalf of a carrier to the carriage or of passengers or of their luggage, or for the disposal of their baggage.
* Luggage: luggage which the passenger has in his cabin or is otherwise in his possession, or which is transported by sea.
** Carriage by ship: a means of transport by sea in which a passenger or his luggage is transported to, from, or to a destination other than the place of departure of the vessel.
MAIN DOCUMENT
  �   барска ганка
Commission Implementing Decision 2008/552/EC of 30 June 2008 on the application of Article 3 (1) and (2) (OJ L 183, 31.6.2008, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation 2008/525/EC have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only. This version is for reference purposes only
last update 30.02.2021



Summary 143:
Establishment and organisation of international rail corridors for competitive rail freight with a view to the development of a European rail network for competitive freight
Establishment, organisation and coordination of freight corridors
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 552/2006 establishing and organising international rail freight for competitive Rail freight
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It lays down rules for the establishment and organisation, and the selection of further freight corridors, in order to develop a European Rail Network for Competitive Rail Freight.
It sets out the rules for:
the selection of the European Union (EU) Member States’ participation in the establishment or modification of additional freight corridors;
the design of the freight corridors.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to:
international rail freight corridors (i.e. rail freight networks) which cover at least 3 Member States, or of 2 Member States if the distance between the terminals served by the freight corridor is greater than 500 km;
a network of intermodal freight terminals (e.g. ports, warehouses, etc.).
It does not apply to the following:
intermodal rail freight terminals*;
crossing by the rail freight corridor of at least three Member States or of two Member States;
exchanges of freight with other rail transport infrastructure;
interconnections between existing railway infrastructure.
The European Economic Group (EEG) is responsible for the management of the corridors. It is composed of the railway infrastructure managers of the Member States and the European Economic and Social Committee (EESC).
the European Transport Network (ETN).
The EESC is the body responsible for managing and coordinating the development and operation of the EU’s rail freight transport network. It also acts as the coordinating body for the implementation of the rules of the EEG.
Management and coordination
Each Member State must:
take the necessary measures to ensure that:
there is sufficient capacity to meet the needs of all types of transport;
there are sufficient infrastructure capacities available along the corridor;
it is planned in a way which meets, subject to economic viability, the specific needs of the corridor.
In order to guarantee the consistency and continuity of the infrastructure capacities, investment in the infrastructure should be coordinated between the infrastructure managers concerned, as well as, where appropriate, between Member States* and European third countries.
A governance structure for each freight corridor must be established, taking into account the need to avoid duplication with already existing governance structures.
Member States may, upon request from a Member State, participate in the creation of a freight corridor or the prolongation of an existing freight corridor, to allow a neighbouring Member State to fulfil its obligation under that regulation. However, the Member State concerned must not be obliged to participate if it would cause a disproportionate burden or would be contrary to the socio-economic interests of the other Member States concerned.
When two or more Member States do not agree on the establishment of a rail corridor, and with regard to the rail infrastructure located on their territory, the Commission, at the request of one of them, consults the Committee referred to in Article 21 on this matter.
Implementation of the regulation
The Commission must ensure that, in the event of a disturbance in the freight freight network, the competent authority of each Member State:
is responsible for ensuring the availability of capacity, fluid movements and a coherent application of priority rules to the different types of traffic;
cooperates with the national authorities of the different Member States to ensure the smooth functioning of the network;
implements the rules relating to the organisation of the board of directors of the various Member States involved in the development, management and operation the freight network.
Review of the legislation
The Regulation has been amended several times. The most recent amendment was adopted in 2017. This amendment seeks to clarify the definition of the term ‘competitive rail freight’ and to establish a definition of ‘rail freight network’.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
The legislation has applied since 1 January 2007.
BACKGROUND
   
 
For more information, see:
European rail freight network (European Commission).
MAIN DOCUMENT
  Еォォォッド 
Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 550/2006 of 29 December 2006 establishing and organisation for the establishing and operation, and for the selection, and modification of further rail freight (OJ L 127, 1.1.2007, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EEC, EEC, EFTA) No 555/2006 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
  i.e.:
Regulations (EC and EFTA Implementing Regulation) No 652/2005 establishing and amending the European Rail Transport Network and establishing an Economic Group for



Summary 144:
Road transport operators: good repute and professional competence (Regulation (EC) No 552/97)
Road transport authorities: good reputation and professional qualifications (Regulations (EC, EFTA, Euratom)
SUMMARY OF:
Delegated Regulation (EC), Euratom — good-repute requirements for road transport operators
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out the conditions for the granting of a Community licence to a road transport operator.
It aims to improve the quality of road transport services in the European Union (EU).
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to all undertakings engaged in road passenger transport services exclusively for non-commercial purposes or which have a main occupation other than that of road passenger operator. It does not apply to undertakings which are engaged in the transport of freight with a commercial purpose.
Authorisation requirements
A road transport undertaking must have authorisation from the competent authority of the EU country in which it is established. This authorisation is valid for a period of 5 years.
The authorisation must be valid for:
the duration of the undertaking’s activity;
the number of vehicles and the number of persons involved in the organisation and management of the road transport organisation; and
the type of vehicle used.
Procedure
An EU country must establish a national electronic register of all road transport undertakings. This register must be publicly accessible, in so far as the relevant provisions on data protection are complied with.
In addition, the European Commission must draw up a list of categories, types and degrees of seriousness of infringements leading to the loss of the good reputation of a transport undertaking.
Penalties
A conviction or penalty incurred by a transport manager or a road-transport undertaking in one or more EU countries for the most serious infringements of Community rules may result in a loss of good reputation, provided that a duly completed and documented investigation procedure granting essential procedural rights took place before its final decision and that appropriate rights of appeal were respected.
A model certificate issued by an EU country of establishment is regarded as sufficient proof by the Member State of establishment that the transport manager/road transport undertaking in question is in possession of the appropriate authorisation.
Member States may, however, lower the speed limit for all or some categories of road traffic operations.
Exceptions
A Member State may apply for a derogation from the conditions of the regulation concerning the recognition of professional competence by Member States and the model certificate.
Road Transport Manager
A transport manager is a person who is responsible for the management and operation of the transport system of an undertaking. The transport manager may be a natural person, any legal person, whether profit-making or not, any association or group of persons without legal personality, or any official body, whether having its own legal personality or being dependent upon an authority having such personality.
An undertaking may be authorised to pursue the occupation of transport operator only if it satisfies the conditions laid down in the regulation. The undertakings established in those regions which comply with the conditions to pursue this occupation only as a result of such adaptation should not be able to obtain a Community license.
Transport Manager
An undertakings’ transport manager must be a person whose sole responsibility is to manage the transport systems of the undertakings concerned and who is independent of any other person or body. The undertaking must be managed by a person with a total responsibility for the organisation of the roads in the territory of the Member States in which the undertaking is established, and which is independently responsible for managing the total number and number of road vehicles. The person in charge of this undertaking may decide to delegate certain tasks to other persons or bodies in order to exercise his or her total responsibilities.
Rules on professional qualifications
The Member States must recognise a model certificate of professional qualifications issued by the competent authorities of their Member States. The model certificate must be issued in accordance with the rules set out in Annex II to this regulation. It must contain the following information:
a description of the type of professional qualification to be recognised;
a list of the types of offences that may lead to the revocation of the authorisation;
an explanation of the technical procedures for the exchange of that data.
References
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in Member States
Official Journal
Directive 2001/24/EC
1.7.2001
-
OJ L 127, 1.7, 2001, pp. 1-8
RELATED ACTS
Commission Implementing Decision (EU) 2015/856 of 27 June 2015 laying down the measures necessary for the implementation of Council Decision 1999/468/EC of 28 June 1999 laying down implementing powers conferred on the Commission pursuant to Council Decision 2000/468 (OJ C 202, 28.6.2015, p. 1)
last update 04.02.2016



Summary 145:
Social security coordination rules — application of Regulation (EC) No 883/2004 on the coordination of social security systems
Social security convergence rules — applying Regulation (EU) No 1408/71
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 496/2006 on the application of the rules on social security coordination to employed persons and their families moving within the Community
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out the rules for the application by EU countries of the basic and implementing social security rules.
It establishes a system for the immediate updating of the annexes to the regulation.
KEY POINTS
EU countries must cooperate in determining the place of residence of persons to whom this regulation applies and, in the event of a dispute, take into consideration all relevant criteria to resolve the matter.
The relevant national social security institutions must forward the information and issue the documents to the persons concerned without delay and in all cases within any time limits specified under the legislation of the EU country in question. The relevant institutions must use the arrangements appropriate to each case, and favour the use of electronic means as far as possible, to facilitate exchanges between EU countries’ institutions.
When data are transferred indirectly via the liaison body of the Member State of destination, time limits for responding to claims start from the date when that liaison body received the claim, as if it had been received by the institution in that Member State.
In the case of claims for benefits provided but not due, the Member States must respond to each other as soon as possible.
within the time limits set out of respect for the country of destination.
Member States must ensure that:
the relevant documents are issued by the social security institution of a Member State and showing the position of a person for the purposes of applying the regulation and the implementing regulation;
the documents are transmitted by electronic means;
there is no time limit for the transmission of information between Member States;
information exchanged between the institutions is transmitted in a form which allows them to be updated in real time.
Where there is a difference of opinion on the validity of a claim, Member States may decide to refer the matter to the competent authority of the other Member States.
Beneficiaries are entitled to benefits only from their Member State in which they reside. However, they should be entitled to benefit only from the country in which the claim was first submitted. The Member States are responsible for the recovery and recovery of the benefits provided, the offsetting and assistance with recovery of benefits not due and the recovery of provisional payments and contributions not due.
A Member State may refuse to provide assistance to a person who has not been able to prove that they have not been entitled to the benefits they have received. In this case, it is the responsibility of the institution of the requested Member State to provide the person concerned with the necessary documents and supporting evidence on the basis of which the documents have been issued.
Annexes 4 and 5 of the regulation provide the details of the national bodies likely to be involved in implementing the regulation, and the electronic details of those national bodies that are likely to do so. The annexes also provide the information of the liaison bodies of Member States that are involved in the implementation of the regulations.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULATING APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 January 2007.
BACKGROUND
 
  The social security system is one of the most complex systems in the European Union (EU). It is designed to ensure the smooth operation and efficient management of the complex procedures implementing the rules of the system.
For more information, see:
‘Social security’ on the European Commission’s website.
MAIN DOCUMENT
  i.e. Council Regulation (EEC), Euratom, of 21 December 2006 on the implementation by Member States of the Council Regulation No 498/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Committee of the Regions of the Social Security coordination rules (OJ L 347, 21.12.2006, pp. 1-24)
Successive amendments to Regulation (e.g. Annexes 1 and 2) have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 14.02.2021



Summary 146:
Statistics on public health and health and safety at work (2009-2013)
Statistics on health and work (2013-2014)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 552/2009/EC — European statistical system for the collection of data on public and health at work
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
   
 
It sets out the rules on the collection and dissemination of European Union (EU) statistical data on:
public and health* at work;
health and safety in the workplace;
the European Community Health Indicators (ECHI);
the other sets of indicators which it is necessary to develop for the purpose of monitoring Community actions in the fields of public health.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to all EU countries’ national statistical systems and Eurostat’s statistical activities in the area of public and work at work.
EU countries must compile data on the following:
the number of people at work and the number of incidents of serious adverse health and/or safety events at work,
the duration of these events and the severity of the incidents and the duration of the events;
public health indicators (e.g. deaths, serious injuries, serious accidents, etc.).
The Commission (Eurostat) already collects on a regular basis statistical data from the EU countries, which provide such data on a voluntary basis.
Eurostat also collates data for structural indicators, sustainable development indicators and European Community health indicators, as well as for the other set of indicators it is required to monitor Community action in this field.
The European Community actions.
National statistical authorities must:
ensure that the collected data are consistent with the developments and achievements resulting from Community action;
use the statistical methodologies and data collected by the national statistical authorities;
take account of the principles set out in the European Statistics Code of Practice, which was adopted by the Statistical Programme Committee on 24 February 2005.
Cooperation with international organisations
The statistical activities of Eurostat are carried out in cooperation with the United Nations and its special organisations, such as the World Health Organisation (WHO), the International Labour Organisation (ILO) and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), when relevant and possible.
In addition, Eurostat collates and disseminates the data it receives from the Member States.
Quality and comparability of the data
The Member States must ensure that the data they collect are:
consistent with the Community action programme for health (2008-2013);
accurate, reliable and comparable;
not duplicative;
inform the European Commission of the quality of the statistical data they have collected;
cooperate with the relevant international organisations;
provide the Commission with the results of the surveys and surveys they have carried out.
References
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member State
Official Journal
Council Decision 2009/52/EC
1.12.2009
-
OJ L 127 of 1.12 of the same day.
RELATED ACTS
Decision No 1350/2007/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 October 2007 establishing a second programme of community action in the field of health and establishing a statistical element of this programme.
Council Resolution of 25 June 2007 on the implementation of the new Community strategy on occupational safety and health (2007-2012) [Official Journal L 94 of 25.6.2007].
Last updated: 22.05.2014



Summary 147:
Quality of job vacancy statistics: EU countries’ responsibilities (2007-2013) (European Commission)
Quality of employment statistics: European Commission’s responsibilities (Eurostat)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 652/2007 laying down the requirements for the regular quarterly production of statistics on Community job vacancies
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
   
It sets out the rules for the production of quarterly statistics on job vacancies* in the European Union (EU).
KEY POINTS
EU countries are required to transmit to the European Commission quarterly data on the number and breakdown of job vacancies in the EU.
The data cover all economic activity, except for the activities of households as employers and activities of extraterritorial organisations and bodies.
They are to be transmitted to Eurostat, the statistical office of the European Economic and Social Committee (EEC).
The Commission is responsible for assessing the quality of the data transmitted. It is assisted by the Statistical Programme Committee.
It is important that the data are shared with the social partners at national and Community level and that the Commission is informed concerning the implementation of this regulation.
EU Member States must ensure that school career guidance services and vocational training bodies receive the data.
In addition, Member States are obliged to transmit, on an optional basis, data on vacancies for personal care services (residential care activities and social work activities without accommodation) and to transmit data on job vacancy for such services.
Member States must also transmit data for:
personal care services;
employment services; and
employment activities;
industrial activities.
industrial activity;
professional activities. The Commission is to assess the quality and reliability of the quarterly data transmitted by Member States.
Data are transmitted using business surveys. They must be transmitted in accordance with the technical specifications set out in the regulation. They should be transmitted no later than 1 year after the date of the first data transmission, and no more than one year thereafter.
Reference dates and technical specifications
Each Member State must transmit the data using the following reference dates:
1.1.2007: the first reference quarter;
2.2.2008: the second reference quarter.
3.2009: the third reference quarter and the fourth reference quarter, and the fifth reference quarter thereafter. Where necessary, back data may be based on ‘best estimates’.
4.2010: the fourth and fifth reference quarters and the sixth reference quarters.
References
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Decision No 1672/2006/EC
24.10.2006
-
OJ L 200 of 24.10 of the same day.
Amending act(s)
Entry in force
Deadlines for transmission into force in Member States and for transmission in non-Member States:
01.01.2007
1 January 2008
1 February 2008
2 January 2009
3 January 2010
4 January 2011
5 January 2012
6 January 2013
7 January 2014
8 January 2015
9 January 2016
10 January 2016.
Last updated: 22.07.2015



Summary 148:
Hybrid vehicles: type-approval of hydrogen-powered vehicles and their systems
Hybrid cars: type of approval of hydrogen systems and systems and their components
Hydrogen vehicles — type of acceptance
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 552/2009 on type-approved vehicles and systems for hydrogen propulsion
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes requirements for the type of approvals of motor vehicles with regard to hydrogen propulsion* and for the types of hydrogen components and hydrogen systems.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to:
motor vehicles designed for motor vehicles of categories M and N, including new forms of hydrogen storage or usage;
hybrid systems designed for vehicles of category M, N and E categories;
hydrogen containers designed to use liquid hydrogen.
Manufacturers must ensure that:
the use of pure hydrogen or a mixture of hydrogen and natural gas/biomethane;
the installation of the systems and components in the vehicle.
The regulations also set out the responsibilities of manufacturers concerning the adoption of appropriate measures to prevent misfuelling of the vehicles.
Implementing measures
The European Commission may adopt implementing measures:
specifications for requirements relating to any of the following:
use of pure or mixture hydrogen;
storage or usage of hydrogen; and
the impact protection of vehicles;
integrated safety and security of the system.
Requirements for hydrogen containers and systems
The rules on the testing of the components and systems must be laid down in Annex II of the regulation.
in Annex III.
Testing of the hydrogen containers
The requirements for containers, other than containers, must be tested in accordance with the test procedures set out in Annex III and in Annex IV.
In Annex V, the regulation sets out the requirements for hydrogen components, including:
type of hydrogen component and system;
pressure level of the internal tank;
temperature of the cryogenic hydrogen in the container;
compatibility of the container with other types of vehicles and with the vehicle;
conditions for the use of the storage or use of hydrogen in vehicles of the category M and the category N.
National authorities must refuse to grant:
EC type approval or national type approval in respect of new types of vehicle where such vehicle does not comply with the requirements of this regulation or of its implementing measures;
new types of system, where such component or system does not meet the requirements;
technical specifications for the installation of systems, components and the storage/use of hydrogen, as well as for the protection of the safety of the vehicle and of the public.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
The Regulation has applied since 24 February 2009 and had to become law in the EU Member States by 24 February 2011.
BACKGROUND
The introduction of hydrogen as a fuel in motor vehicles is one of the key objectives of the European Union (EU) programme to modernise and modernise the EU’s rules on motor vehicles. To this end, it is necessary to establish a system of type approval for hydrogen vehicles. The regulation establishes a framework for the approval of these vehicles. It is designed to ensure that hydrogen vehicles are safe and reliable and that they are compatible with the other vehicles in their class.
For more information, see:
‘Hybrid Vehicles’ on the European Commission’�s website.
* KEY TERMS
* Hydrogen: a fuel that is produced in a sustainable manner, as far as possible from renewable energy resources, so that the overall environmental balance is positive.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 550/2009 of 23 February 2009 on type of authorised vehicles for the provision of hydrogen propulsion (OJ L 127, 24.3.2009, pp. 1–8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EEC) no 550/09 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 25.02.2021



Summary 149:
Equal market access to the transmission networks of natural gas transmission system operators
Equity of access for natural gas Transmission system operators in the European Union (EU)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 552/2009 on conditions for access to natural gas distribution networks
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
   
 
It aims to ensure that natural gas system operators (TSOs) have equal access to gas transmission networks in the EU.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to:
transmission system operators;
storage system operators*;
third party access services.
It does not apply to the following:
gas storage facilities;
gas distribution systems;
transport systems; and
gas transmission networks.
Access to information
TSOs must be able to book entry and exit capacity independently, thereby creating gas transport through zones instead of along contractual paths.
Transit system operators must provide information on the physical status and efficiency of the system, to enable all market participants to assess the overall demand and supply situation and to identify the reasons for movements in the wholesale price.
The transmission system operator must also provide information to market participants on:
the capacity of the transmission system;
the characteristics of the gas transmission network;
capacity of the storage system.
EU countries may establish an entity or body set up in compliance with Directive 2009/73/EC for the purpose of carrying out one or more of the functions typically attributed to the system operator, which shall be subject to the requirements of this regulation.
In addition, the European Commission may adopt guidelines for good third-party access practice for storage system operators. These guidelines are to be adopted by the European Gas Regulatory Forum (the Madrid Forum) in accordance with the principles of subsidiarity, as set out in Article 5 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU (see summary).
The Commission may also adopt the Guidelines necessary for providing the minimum degree of harmonisation required to achieve the aims of this Regulation.
National transmission and distribution authorities must ensure that:
all national transmission systems are compatible with network codes and non-binding ten-year network development plans at EU level;
all transmission systems have the necessary capacity to carry out their tasks effectively and efficiently;
there is no discrimination in terms of the terms and conditions of the transport contracts of a particular system operator in an EU country or in another EU country, unless minimum requirements are set which must be met by all transport contracts.
Tarrifs
The tariff applicable to transmission systems must be based on the best available market price. In that respect, and in particular if effective pipeline-to-pipeline competition exists, the benchmarking of tariffs by the regulatory authorities will be a relevant consideration.
If the tariff is not based on market price, it must be determined by the national transmission system authority. The Commission must also take into account the economic, social and environmental aspects of the tariff, as well as the technical aspects of transmission systems.
Regulatory authorities must:
monitor the implementation of the regulation;
make recommendations to the European Parliament, the Council and the European Economic and Social Committee on the harmonisation of the rules applicable to the internal market in natural gas;
draw up a report every 5 years on the implementation and application of the regulations.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
It has applied since 1 January 2010.
BACKGROUND
  The regulation is part of a package of measures designed to create an internal market for gas. The other measures are:
Directive 2003/55/EC on common rules for the internal markets in electricity and gas, and its subsequent amendments and corrections;
Implementing Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1775/2005 on conditions of access to transmission networks;
Delegated Regulation (Euratom) 2018/852 on the conditions for the access of third parties to the natural gas market.
For more information, see:
Natural gas (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Transmission system operator: a person or body responsible for the operation of a transmission or distribution system in the territory of an EU Member State.
Storage system operators: a company that has the right to store gas in a storage facility.
Third party access service: a service that is provided by a third party.
MAIN DOCUMENT
  i.
  I.
Communication from the Commission to the Council, European Parliament and the Council on the application of Council Regulations (EC and Euratom).
Successive amendments to Council Regulation (ec) No 550/2009 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 14.02.2021



Summary 150:
Judicial cooperation in civil matters between EU countries and non-EU countries: mutual recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters (Regulation (EC) No 652/2006)
Judicial Cooperation in civil matter between EU and non–EU countries
SUMMARY OF:
Council Regulation (EU) No 608/2006 on the mutual recognition of judgments and recognition of decisions in civil, commercial and administrative matters between Member States and third countries
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out the conditions for the European Commission to authorise a Member State to negotiate an agreement with a third country on matters falling within the exclusive competence of the European Community (now the EU).
The regulation applies to all civil matters covered by Article 300 of the Treaty on European Union (TEU).
It does not apply to:
bilateral agreements;
regional agreements between a limited number of Member States, for example two or three, intended to address local situations and not open for accession to other countries;
certain regional agreements between countries neighbouring Member States.
KEY POINTS
The Member State concerned must notify the Commission of its intentions with a view to obtaining an authorisation to open or continue formal negotiations on an agreement as well as to conclude an agreement.
If the envisaged agreement meets the conditions set out in Article 4(2), the Commission must, within 90 days of receipt of the notification, give a reasoned decision on the application of the Member State authorising it to open formal negotiations or to conclude the agreement. The Commission may propose negotiating guidelines and may request the inclusion of particular clauses in the agreement, or to replace the relevant provisions of the original agreement with those of a subsequent agreement. If, on the basis of its assessment, the Commission may not authorise the opening of negotiations or the conclusion of a negotiated agreement, it must, before giving its reasoned decision, give an opinion to the EU country concerned.
Notification must be given by letter or by electronic means.
The Commission must be kept fully informed throughout the different stages of the negotiations as far as matters falling under the scope of this regulation are concerned and should be allowed to participate as an observer in negotiations as regards those matters.
Where the Commission considers that the agreement envisaged does not meet the conditions laid down in the regulation, it may, subject to certain conditions, authorise it to close the agreement or to open new negotiations on the same subject matter, or for a direct replacement of its relevant provisions by the provisions of such subsequent agreement or by a regional agreement. It must also inform the European Parliament, the Council and the European Economic and Social Committee of the reasons for this decision.
Authorisation of negotiations and conclusion of the agreement:
the Member State must inform the Commission within 30 days of receiving the notification of its intention to negotiate the agreement;
the Commission must give its reasoned opinion on the agreement’s opening of formal negotiations and its conclusion within 30 months of receiving that notification;
within 30 days, the Member States must give their opinion on whether the agreement should be closed or whether it should be concluded.
In the event of the latter, the agreement may not be concluded, it shall be closed by the Commission. The Member State shall submit a report to the Parliament and to the European Council on its intention not to do so.
Amendments to the regulation
The Regulation has been amended several times. The most recent amendments to the Regulation have been incorporated into the original text. These amendments concern:
a bilateral agreement between an EU country and a non-member country;
a regional agreement between a small number of countries and of third countries neighbouring EU countries which is aimed at addressing local situations;
an agreement between countries which are not eligible to join the EU and which is not open to accession.
References
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in Member States
Official Journal
Regulation(EU) 2018/852
-
OJ L 347 of 27.11.2018
RELATED ACTS
Council Implementing Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 596/2006 of 22 December 2006 on the Mutual Recognition and Enforcement of Judgments in Civil, Commercial and Administrative Matters between Member State and Non-EU Countries (Official Journal L 304 of 28.12.2006).
last update 27.02.2021



Summary 151:
Statistics on migration and asylum: collection and compilation of EU statistics (2003-2006)
Migration and asylum statistics: collection, compilation and dissemination
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 311/76 on the collection, compiling and dissemination of Community statistics in the field of migration
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes common rules for the collection and compiling of statistics on:
immigration to and emigration from the Member State territories, including flows from the territory of one Member State to that of another Member State;
the number of requests for taking back or taking charge of an asylum seeker,
the provisions on which the requests are based, and
the numbers of transfers to which the decisions lead.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to all Member States. It does not apply to non-EU countries.
EU countries must supply to the European Commission (Eurostat) statistics on the following.
The number of residence permits issued to persons who are third-country nationals, disaggregated as follows:
permits issued during the reference period whereby the person is being granted permission to reside for a limited period of time;
permits issued for a specific category of long-term visa or immigration status to be granted instead of a residence permit;
recipients of visas and grants of status.
Requests for asylum seekers.
Member States must provide Eurostat with the following statistics:
the total number of asylum seekers who have applied for asylum;
requests for the return or taking-charge of a person who is a danger to national security or public policy;
transfers of persons who have left the Member States;
total number of transfers of persons between Member States, including the number of persons transferred.
Eurostat must report to the Commission on the use and probable effects of estimations or other methods of adapting statistics based on national definitions to comply with the harmonised definitions set out in the regulation.
In addition, Member States must supply the Commission with the information on the sources and methods used to collect the statistics.
National authorities must also supply Eurostat data on the number and quality of sources used for the compilation of the statistics, and on the types of data to be selected and the quality of the data they provide.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
The Regulation has applied since 1 January 2006.
BACKGROUND
The European Commission has adopted a number of measures to improve the quality and reliability of the EU’s statistics on migration. These include:
an action plan for collection and analysis of Community Statistics in the area of migration;
a communication from the Commission to the Council and the European Parliament setting out an action plan to be adopted by the Commission in April 2003 setting out measures to be taken to ensure the production of comprehensive statistics necessary for the development and implementation of fair and effective Community policies on migration; and
a proposal to propose legislation for migration.
For more information, see:
‘Migration statistics’ on Eurostat's website.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 310/76 of 20 December 2003 on the Collection, Composition and Distribution of European Community Statistics on Migration and Asylum (OJ L 127, 21.12.2003, pp. 1-17)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EEC) no 310/1976 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
Commission Implementing Decision (EU) 2015/852 of 27 November 2015 laying down detailed rules on the application of Commission Implementing Regulation (C) No 1560/2003 of 2 September 2003 laying down details for the application by Member States of the European Community Statistical Programme Committee on the statistical programmemes of the Communities (EC-SPS) (EC Decision 89/382/EEC of 19 June 1989 establishing a committee on the Statistical Programmes in the European Communities).
last update 04.02.2016



Summary 152:
Audits of public-interest entities: independence of statutory auditors and audit firms (Regulation (EU) 2015/856)
Audits on public- interest entities: integrity of statutory audits and independence of audit firms
SUMMARY OF:
Delegated Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2015-856 on statutory audits of public interest entities
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out the conditions for the approval of the persons responsible for carrying out the statutory audit* of an audited entity.
It establishes a maximum duration of the audit engagement of a statutory auditor or an audit firm in a particular audited company.
KEY POINTS
Scope of cooperation between the competent authorities
The competent authorities of EU countries must cooperate with regard to:
the quality assurance reviews and assistance with investigations related to the audit;
the selection of the statutory auditor and the audit firm; and
the audit report.
Quality assurance reviews must be organised in such a manner that each statutory auditor* or each audit firm carrying out audits of the audited entities is subject to a quality assurance review on the basis of an analysis of the risks.
The audit report must include sufficient information on the independence of the auditor or the audit firms and on whether the statutory audits were considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud.
Auditors must be able to provide non-audit services which are not prohibited under this regulation, if they have been approved in advance by the audit committee and if they can demonstrate that provision of those services does not pose a threat to their independence.
Independence of statutory audit and audit firm
The statutory auditor must ensure that:
there is no conflict of interest;
there are no conflicts of interest between the audit auditor* and the auditor*;
it is possible for the audit audit to be carried out by an independent audit firm.
In addition to the above requirements, the audit report should also include:
a description of how the audit was carried out;
an assessment of the quality of the work;
a summary of the results of the audits carried out.
EU countries must:
ensure that statutory audits are carried out in accordance with the requirements laid down in Directive 2006/43/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council;
carry out the audit on behalf of the accounting firm;
notify the European Commission and the European Banking Authority of any infringements of any of the requirements of this regulation.
Where an audit is carried out under the supervision of a national authority, the national authority must have the necessary powers to undertake their supervisory tasks, including the capacity to access data, obtain information and carry out inspections.
National authorities must also cooperate with the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) in the investigation of any infringement of the provisions of the regulation. The OLAF may also carry out its own investigations in cases where an infringement has been committed.
FROM WHEN DOES THE LEGULATION APPLY?
Directive (EU), Euratom and the Council have to incorporate it into national law by 31 December 2015.
BACKGROUND
The regulation establishes a framework for statutory audits in the EU.
For more information, see:
‘Audits’ on the Euratom website.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Commission Delegated regulation (Euratom) of 30 November 2015 on statutory audit of public interests entities (OJ L 304, 31.11.2015, pp. 1–8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (E) 2015–856 have been incorporated into the original document. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
Directives 2006/42/EC and 2009/65/EC establishing a European system for statutory auditing (EEC) and repealing Directive 2004/109/EC (EC) (Directive 2011/61/EU establishing the European System for the Auditing of Public-Interest Entities (ESAA) (EIA) (OIA). See consolidated version.
Commission Implementing Decision 2014/56/EU of 27 November 2014 on the harmonisation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of Member States relating to statutory audits (ESA) (Official Journal L 347, 30.12.2014, p. 1)
last update 28.02.2016



Summary 153:
Conservation of marine biological resources and management of fisheries targeting them (Common Fisheries Policy (CFP) (European Commission)
Convention on the Conservation of Marine Biological Resources and the Management of Fisheries Targeting Them
Conservation and Management of Marine Biodiversity and the Marine Economy
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 652/2010 — Common Fisheries Policy
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes the framework for the sustainable exploitation of stocks and marine ecosystems in Europe’s oceans and seas.
KEY POINTS
The regulation sets out the rules for the implementation of the common fisheries policy.
The scope of the CFP includes:
the conservation of marine species and their management;
the management of fishing activities targeting them.
EU countries must ensure that:
fishing activities are based on the best available scientific advice and relevant information exchange;
there is transparency as regards the determination of the surplus and, consequently, a management of the resources that is consistent with the objectives of CFP;
fisheries are managed in accordance with the minimum conservation reference size (MSA) and the maximum sustainable yield (MSY);
the use of modern and effective technologies is promoted in the framework of the EU system for control, inspection, inspection and enforcement of fisheries.
Fisheries must comply with the rules laid down in Regulation (EU) No 571/2002 on the European Union system for the control and inspection of fishing fleets.
Member States must:
ensure that fishing vessels are registered and registered in the same way as those under EU law;
keep a record of all catches and discards;
take measures to reduce the number of unwanted catches and to eliminate discards.
In addition to the MSA, Member States are required to:
monitor and report on their data collection activities, which must be made public;
cooperate with one another, preparing and sending joint recommendations to the European Commission;
identify, monitor and report to the Commission on the management of their fishing fleets;
monitor the use of new control technologies and data management systems;
use the best scientific advice available to ensure that they are implemented in line with the CSP;
make sure that their vessels comply with all applicable rules and regulations;
have the right to use the equipment they have acquired;
apply the rules and procedures laid down by the CPA.
Regulations and implementing acts
The CFP is implemented in a way that is compatible with other EU policies and, in particular, that takes into account interactions with EU actions in other maritime policy areas. It covers:
marine conservation and management measures in the Baltic Sea, North Sea, Celtic seas, Bay of Biscay and the Iberian Coast, Mediterranean and Black Sea sea basins;
marine management measures where marine resources occur in sea areas of different jurisdictional status and obligations to have due regard to other legitimate uses of the seas;
management of fisheries in the Black Sea, Baltic Sea and Baltic Sea basins.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULATIONS APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 January 2011.
BACKGROUND
 
  The CFP has been in force since 10 December 1982 and has to become law in the Member States by 1 January 2012.
For more information, see:
The Common Fisheries Plan (European Fisheries Agency).
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Decision 2010/652/EC of 25 and 26 March 2010 on the common Fisheries Policy of the European Community and repealing Regulation No 290/2002 (OJ L 183, 1.4.2010, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EC, No 572/2010 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 04.02.2016



Summary 154:
Common organisation of the markets in fishery and aquaculture products - Regulation (EU) No 1380/2013 (see summary). Common organisation of markets in fisheries and aqua-fishery products (CMO) - Regulation(EU) 2016/852
Common organisation on the markets of fishery products and aquaquulture products
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 104/2000 on the common organisation of fishing markets
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out the rules for the establishment, recognition and operation of fisherye producer organisations and aquafishery producer organisations (FPOs) in the European Union (EU).
KEY POINTS
The purpose of the regulation is to:
establish the FPOs and the producer organisations;
ensure that their members’ products are placed on the market;
promote the ecological sustainability of their products;
strengthen market stability and increase the return on products.
The regulation sets out rules for:
the recognition of the organisations by the EU countries;
the format and structure of the production and marketing plans, as well as the procedure and the time–limits for submission and approval of them;
marketing standards;
consumer information;
competition rules; and
market intelligence.
Member organisations must:
be established on the initiative of producers in one or more EU countries and recognised in accordance with the rules laid down in the regulation;
be composed of members from different Member States and different regions. Where relevant, the specific situation of small-scale producers must be taken into account when establishing producer organisations.
They must, in addition to the objectives set out in paragraphs 1 and 2, pursue two or more of the following objectives:
improving the conditions for the placing on market of their members' fishery or aquacultural products, in particular by improving the economic returns;
stabilising the markets;
contributing to food supply and promoting high food quality and safety standards, whilst contributing to employment in coastal and rural areas;
reducing the environmental impact of fishing, including through measures to improve the selectivity of fishing gears;
collecting and managing unwanted fish;
avoiding the use of unwanted fishing gear;
advising the competent authorities on the management and use of marine resources;
providing information on the environmental and health aspects of fishing activities;
developing information on aquaquaculture production and sales plans.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
The Regulation has applied since 12 December 2014. However, in order to ensure continuity in the provision of consumer information, Article 4 thereof should continue to apply until 12 December 2016.
BACKGROUND
Fishery markets in the EU are governed by the Common Fisheries Policy (CFP).
For more information, see:
‘Fisheries’ on the European Commission's website.
* KEY TERMS
* FPO: an organisation composed of producers of fishing or aquaquatic products. It is recognised by the national authorities of the Member States.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Commission Implementing Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 102/2014 of 12 November 2014 establishing the Common Organisation of the Markets in Fishery and Aquaculture Products (OJ L 347, 12.12.2014, pp. 1–8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (Euratom) have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
Regulations (EC and Euratom).
Directive 2014/34/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 October 2014 establishing a mechanism for storing fish products for human consumption and repealing Council Regulations (EEC, EEC, EFTA, EC, EFPA, EEA) No 552/2004, (EC), No 554/2004 and (EC)(OJ C 202, 23.11.2014)
Directives (EU, Euram) No 1/2014, (EU), No 2/2014 and (EU/EU) 2018 of the Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee, the Committee of the Regions and the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) establishing the European Fisheries Stabilisation Mechanism (EFSM) and repealing Directives 2004/10/EC, 2004/11/EC and 2004/12/EC of the Commission and Council Directives 2003/13/EC (EfsM), 2004/15/EC/EC(EEC) and 2005/1130/EC.
See consolidated version.
last update 04.02.2021



Summary 155:
Securities settlement: prudential requirements for securities settlement systems (Regulation (ECB) No 521/2014)
Securities settlements: prudentially supervised by European Securities and Trading Board (ECCB)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation(ECB/2014/521 laying down prudential rules for the securities settlement* systems of European securities settlement authorities
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out rules on the prudential supervision of securities settlement operators (CSDs) in the European Union (EU).
It aims to ensure that CSDs are subject to the same prudential obligations as other financial institutions.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to all securities transactions that are executed on trading venues regulated by Directive 2014/65/EU and Regulation (EU) No 600/2014 or provided as collateral under the conditions laid down in Directive 2002/47/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council. It does not apply to:
transactions that are negotiated privately by the relevant parties, but executed on the trading venues covered by Directive 2004/47 /EC;
trading venues which are executed bilaterally, but reported to a trading venue, but not reported by a CSD.
It applies to the following:
traded securities that are recorded in a securities settlement system (CSD book-entry system);
trades in securities that have a standardised character, i.e. they can be settled in one or more than one CSD;
the execution of a buy-in procedure;
all financial instruments that are traded on a single trading venue.
the settlement of securities in a single CSD’s book.
Settlement procedures and penalties
A CSD is subject to authorisation and supervision by the competent authority of its home EU country, which is well placed and empowered to examine how CSDs operate on a daily basis and to carry out regular reviews and take appropriate action.
The ESCB, which acts as a settlement agent for the purpose of settlement, is exempt from the requirements set out in Title IV of this regulation.
In order to ensure an appropriate level of safety in the provision of services by CSDs in another EU Member State, such CSDs must be subject to a specific procedure where they intend to provide certain core services as provided for in this regulation or set up a branch in a host Member State. This procedure should not prevent the members of the ESCB from accessing the information relevant for the performance of their duties, including the oversight of CSDs and other financial market infrastructures.
EU countries’ competent authorities are responsible for monitoring the CSDs’ compliance with the regulation and for taking appropriate action in the event of a failure of a settlement procedure. The ESCB is also responsible for ensuring that the competent authorities of the Member States monitor the operation of the system and take the appropriate action to prevent any risks arising from the failure of the settlement procedures.
If a settlement fails, the competent national authority must take the necessary measures to ensure the liquidity of the relevant financial instruments and to impose appropriate penalties on the CSD responsible for the failure.
Where a settlement order is issued by a central securities settlement authority in one Member State to another, that order must be recorded in the system of the same CSD in order to guarantee that all the securities involved in the transaction are settled in the same securities settlement. The same rules apply to the execution of multiple settlement instructions on the same financial instruments with the same date of expiry of the extension period with the aim of minimising the number of buy-ins to the extent compatible with the requirements of this Regulation.
A settlement order may be issued by any central security depositary in any Member State where the securities concerned are traded in more than 1 Member State and where the transaction has taken place on more than 2 Member States’ trading venues. The order must contain the following information:
the date of execution of the order,
the number of securities involved, and
the amount of cash that has been put on the market and the amount of collateral that is required for the settlement of the transaction.
An ESCB Member State must ensure that the central securities depositary has the necessary resources to monitor the execution and operation of its securities settlement procedures and to take appropriate measures to prevent the occurrence of any failure of any securities settlement procedure in the Member State in which the order has been issued. It must also ensure that its competent authorities have access to the information necessary for the operation and maintenance of its systems.
To ensure the proper functioning of the internal market, the regulation sets out a number of uniform obligations to be imposed on market participants regarding certain aspects of the settlements cycle and discipline and to provide a set of common requirements for CSDs operating securities settlements systems. These obligations include:
a system of standardised rules to be applied to the settlement cycle and to the discipline of the procedures and procedures relating to settlement fails;
rules to be adopted to the procedures



Summary 156:
Cohesion Fund: transport infrastructure and environment
Cohesion fund: transportation infrastructure
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 1316/2013 establishing the Cohesion Fund
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF).
It aims to provide a financial contribution to projects in the fields of environment and trans-European networks in the area of transport infrastructure.
It repeals Regulation (EC) No 1084/2006.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The ERDF is the European Union’s investment fund for the period 2013-2020. It provides financial support for transport infrastructure projects of European added value (AADV) of up to €10.5 billion.
Specific provisions concerning the type of activities which can be supported by the Fund, in order to contribute to the investment priorities within the thematic objectives set out in the regulation (see below), are laid down in the implementing acts.
The Cohesion fund supports projects that are part of the Connecting Europe Facility (see summary).
The EADV covers the following types of projects:
transport infrastructure projects for a total of €10 billion under Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 1303/2013 for an amount of EUR 10 billion;
environmental projects for an additional amount of €5 billion under the same regulation;
trans-European network projects for the same amount.
Investment to achieve the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions from activities listed in Annex I to Directive 2003/87/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 establishing the EU Green Deal for Europe.
Risk management and risk management of investment in the field of transport.
In order to address the specific needs of the Fund and in line with the EU strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, it is necessary to set out within each thematic objective, the specific actions as 'investment priorities'. These investment priorities must set out detailed objectives, which are not mutually exclusive, to which the Fund is to contribute. These include:
enhancing the capacity of public authorities and stakeholders and efficient public administration;
strengthening the institutional capacity and the efficiency of public administrations and public services related to the implementation of the fund;
promoting noise-reduction measures;
encouraging risk-management investment;
improving the quality of public transport infrastructure;
ensuring the efficient operation of the EU transport network.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
The regulation entered into force on 21 December 2013.
BACKGROUND
   
The purpose of the EAFD is to provide financial support to projects that contribute to:
the sustainable development of the environment;
the improvement of the quality and efficiency of the transport infrastructure of the Member States; and
the expansion of the capacity to meet the transport needs of Member States.
For more information, see:
The European Commission's website on the European regional development fund.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (U.S.A. 2015/852/EU of 21 November 2015 establishing the European Social Fund (OJ L 347, 21.12.2015, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (USA) 2015/884 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 04.02.2020



Summary 157:
The European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) and the Cohesion Fund (2013-2020)
The European regional development fund (2013 - 2020)
SUMMARY OF:
Delegated Regulation (EU) No 552/2014 on the European Regional development fund
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
   
 
It sets out the rules for the operation and funding of the EU’s regional development funds.
It aims to contribute to reducing disparities between the levels of development of the various regions and to reducing the backwardness of the least favoured regions, among which particular attention is to be paid to regions which suffer from severe and permanent natural or demographic handicaps such as the northernmost regions with very low population density and island, cross-border and mountain regions.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The ERDF is designed to support the development of regions with low or very low levels of economic and social development. It does not apply to regions whose GDP per capita is less than 75 % of the average of the Member States’ gross domestic product (GDP) for the period 2007-2013.
The regulation defines the types of activities which can be supported by the ERDF, in order to contribute towards achieving the thematic objectives set out in Regulation (EC) No 1303/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 December 2013 on the implementation of Horizon 2020 (see summary).
It does not support:
the decommissioning or the construction of nuclear power stations;
the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions from activities listed in Annex I to the regulation;
investment in the area of sustainable urban development;
measures to mitigate the impact of tobacco and tobacco-processing.
Funding
The Regulation sets out a list of the specific actions that can be funded under the Regulation. These include:
new solutions that address issues that are relevant at EU level, i.e. new solutions that are related to sustainable urban developments and are of relevance at European level;
innovative actions that are part of a territorial strategy for specific areas;
projects that contribute to the creation of new jobs;
activities supporting sustainable tourism, culture and natural heritage, including the conversion of declining industrial regions. The Regulation also sets out indicative amounts for these actions.
In addition, the Regulation sets up a partnership agreement between the European Commission and the regions of the participating Member States. This allows the Commission to make recommendations to the regions on how to use the funds. It also allows for the sharing of facilities and human resources, and all types of infrastructure across borders in all regions. This partnership agreement is valid for a period of 5 years.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
The legislation entered into force on 1 January 2014.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member State
Official Journal
Decision 2014/552/EU
1.1.2014
-
OJ L 136 of 31.12.2014.
RELATED ACTS
Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1080/2006
31.11.2006
–
Commission Recommendation 2003/361/EC of 27 June 2003 on the operation of the Regional Development Funds and the European Social Fund and laying down the principles for selecting the urban areas where integrated actions are to be implemented, and the indicative amounts to be set out for those actions, in accordance with the Partnership Agreement.
Directive 2013/13/EU establishing the European Structural Funds and establishing the framework for Horizon 2020 - the Framework Programme for Research and Innovation.
Commission Implementing Decision 2013/23/EU of 27 May 2013 establishing the Framework programme for research and innovation and laying out the principles and guidelines for implementing Horizon 2020.
Council Decision 2012/419/EU concerning the outermost regions referred to in Article 349 TFEU.
Last updated: 27.07.2014



Summary 158:
European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) — cooperation programmes for the regions of the European Union (EU) and the countries bordering the EU’s eastern and southern borders (InterACT, ESPON and INTERACT II)
European Regional Developing Fund (ERCDF)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 1301/2013 on cooperation programmes under the European Structural and Investment Funds
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out the rules governing the cooperation programmes supported by the European Regional Development Funds (ERGDF).
It aims to support cross-border, transnational and interregional cooperation with the countries of the eastern, southern and eastern borders of the EU.
KEY POINTS
Cooperation programmes
The ERDF supports the development of regional cooperation in the following areas:
cross-border cooperation;
transnational cooperation, including:
the creation of regional and transnational networks;
the strengthening of transnational cooperation with non-EU countries;
exchange of information and expertise;
cooperation in the field of maritime cooperation.
Cooperative programmes
Cooperating programmes are designed to:
promote:
high employment that results in social and territorial cohesion, including through activities supporting sustainable tourism, culture and natural heritage, as part of a territorial strategy aimed at achieving employment-friendly growth;
develop administrative capacity;
strengthen regional cooperation, in line with macro-regional and sea-basin strategies.
support and facilitate, through specific arrangements, effective cooperation with neighbouring countries.
The regulation sets out specific categories of cooperation programmes.
Cross-border programmes
Interregional programmes aim to strengthen cooperation by means of actions conducive to integrated territorial development linked to the EU's cohesion policy priorities, and should also include maritime cooperation not covered by the current INTERACT and ESPON programmes. In addition, the content of such cooperation programmes should be adapted, especially as regards the definition of the beneficiary or beneficiaries.
Transnational cooperation should aim to promote:
a high level of mutual trust between the EU countries’ territorial authorities;
improving the quality of the information and communication networks between the regions;
promoting the exchange of experience and best practice in the fields of transport, energy, transport infrastructure, maritime transport and maritime transport;
encouraging the creation of a network of experts and experts in the areas covered by these programmes;
contributing to the implementation of the regional development goal of the ERDF;
supporting regional cooperation with countries in the eastern and south-eastern regions, as well as the countries whose territory borders the EU;
providing technical assistance to the regions involved in these programmes, in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 1080/43/2013;
assisting the regions in implementing their regional development goals.
In line with the EU strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, regional cooperation should provide a more integrated and inclusive approach to tackling local problems. It should also contribute to reducing disparities between the levels of development of the various regions and to reducing the backwardness of the least favoured regions, among which particular attention is to be paid to rural areas, areas affected by industrial transition, and regions which suffer from severe and permanent natural or demographic handicaps such as the northernmost regions with very low population density and the mountain regions.
A common set of output indicators to facilitate the assessment of programme implementation is set out in an annex to this regulation.
Regulatory procedure
The Regulation sets out a procedure for the approval of cooperation cooperation programmes, which must be submitted to the European Commission. The Commission approves only the core elements of the programmes, while the other elements must be approved by the participating EU countries or Member States.
Member States must submit a report to the Commission every 3 years on the progress of the programme. The report must include a description of how the programme has been implemented and the number of beneficiaries and the results achieved.
Monitoring
The Commission is responsible for monitoring the programme implementation. It must submit reports to the Member States and the European Parliament and the Council on the performance of the cooperation programme, and to the Committee of the Regions, which is composed of representatives from each Member State and the Commission.
Where the programme is not being fully implemented, the Commission may adopt measures to ensure that it is effectively monitored.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULATIONS APPLY?
The regulations apply from 1 January 2014.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EU), Euratom of 21 December 2013 on cooperation programme implementation under the Regional Development and Cooperation Fund (Interact) (OJ L 304, 28.12.2013, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (Euratom) no 1301 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
Regulations (EC, Eurat) No 1021/2014 of the Council of 21 October 2014



Summary 159:
Trans-European energy infrastructure — strategic priorities for the period 2020-2030 (Regulation (EC) No 714/2009 on energy infrastructure) (SUMMARY OF:
Implementing Regulation (EU) 2019/852 — strategic energy infrastructure priorities for 2020 and beyond
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes a European energy infrastructure priority list.
It aims to identify energy infrastructure projects of common interest in the areas of energy, transport and telecommunication.
KEY POINTS
The European Commission has identified 12 strategic trans-European infrastructure priorities, the implementation of which by 2020 is essential for the achievement of the EU’s energy and climate policy objectives. These include:
modernising and expanding the energy infrastructure;
ensuring security of supply;
reducing greenhouse gas emissions;
increasing the share of renewable energy in final energy consumption to 20% by 2020;
improving energy efficiency.
The priority lists are drawn up by the Commission and the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union (EU).
To be eligible for inclusion in the second and subsequent EU lists, projects must be part of the latest available 10-year network development plan for electricity and gas. The Commission also selects projects from existing projects that are to be included in the next EU list as proposed projects; however, care should be taken to minimise the resulting administrative burden as much as possible, for example by using to the extent possible information submitted previously, and by taking account of the annual reports of the project promoters.
In addition to the priority list, the Commission must also draw up a list of projects that have been designated as ‘critical infrastructures’. These are those which have been identified as such by the European Commission or the European Atomic Energy Agency (EAA).
The Commission is responsible for drawing up the list of priority projects. The list is published in the Official Journal of the EEA.
To ensure uniform conditions for access to the network for cross-border exchanges in electricity, the list is drawn up and published by the EAA and the Commission. For gas, it is based on the best available 10 year network development plans of the Member States.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULTRY APPLY?
The regulation has applied since 1 January 2019.
BACKGROUND
The energy infrastructure needs to be modernised in order to prevent technical failure and to increase its resilience against such failure, natural or man-made disasters, adverse effects of climate change and threats to its security.
For more information, see:
Energy infrastructure priorities (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Strategic energy infrastructure: a network of energy transmission, distribution and interconnecting energy networks, including pipelines, power stations, substations and transmission lines, which are essential to ensure the uninterrupted supply of energy to the EU.
* Critical infrastructure: an infrastructure which is essential to the security of the supply of electricity, gas and oil, and for the protection of the environment.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Commission Implementing Regulation(EU) 2018/752 of 21 December 2018 establishing a strategic energy Infrastructure Priority List for 2020 (OJ L 347, 22.12.2018, pp. 1-8)
RELATED DOCUMENTS
Regulation(EU, Euratom) No 852/2009 of the Council and of the Representatives of the Governments, meeting within the Council, of 13 July 2009 establishing a European Energy Infrastructure Priorities List and repealing Council Directive 2008/114/EC of 8 December 2008 on the identification and designation of European critical infrastructure and on the assessment of the need to improve their protection.
Directive 2008/113/EC on the designation and protection of certain European critical infrructures as set out in Council Directives 2008/115/EC and 2008/118/EC.
See consolidated version.
Communication from the Commission to Member States, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions — Energy infrastructure priorities — A Blueprint for an integrated European energy network (COM(2011) 696 final, 28.7.2011)
last update 04.02.2021



Summary 160:
Alternative dispute resolution (ADR) platform for online sales and services
Alternative dispute Resolution (ODR)* platform to resolve disputes between consumers and traders
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 552/2014 on alternative dispute resolution
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to improve consumer protection by setting up an online dispute resolution* platform.
It applies to online sales or service contracts where the trader, or the trader’s intermediary, has offered goods or services through a website or by other electronic means and the consumer has ordered them.
KEY POINTS
The ODR platform is an interactive website offering a single point of entry to consumers and trader seeking to resolve online disputes arising from online transactions. It allows for the submission of a complaint and cooperation within the network of ODR contact points. It also allows for disputes to be settled in a case management tool.
The regulation applies to disputes initiated by traders against consumers where the relevant ADR procedures are offered by ADR entities listed in accordance with Article 20(2) of Directive 2013/11/EU.
Traders established within the EU engaging in online sales contracts must provide, on their websites, an electronic link to the platform. They must also inform consumers about the ADR procedure by which those traders are covered and about whether or not they commit to use these procedures to resolve their disputes with consumers.
EU countries must ensure that the ODR platforms are accessible to all EU citizens and that they are accessible through the ‘Your Europe portal’, which provides access to pan-European, multilingual online information and interactive services to businesses and citizens in the EU.
In order to ensure uniform conditions for the implementation of this regulation, the Commission is to confer on the Commission implementing powers in respect of the functioning of the platform, the modalities for submission of complaints and cooperation between the network and contact points, and the application of the regulation.
Where a trader has not complied with the requirements of the Regulation, it may be referred to the competent authority of the EU country concerned. The competent authority must examine the case and submit a report to the European Parliament, the Council and the European Economic and Social Committee on the application and application of this Regulation.
If a trader does not comply with these requirements, it must inform the Commission of the reasons for this. The Commission may adopt a regulation imposing sanctions on the trader.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULATIONS APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 January 2014.
BACKGROUND
 
  * KEY TERMS
* Online sales and service contract: a contract between a trader and a consumer.
* Case management tool: a tool that allows consumers to submit a complaint against a trader in the event of a dispute arising from an online sale or service contract.
MAIN DOCUMENT
  �   народна гарана 
Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 550/2014 of 21 December 2014 on the Alternative Dispute Resolution Platform for Online Sales and Service Contracts (ODR platform) (OJ L 347, 21.12.2014, pp. 1–8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (Euratom) no 550/14 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
  –   –
Commission Communication of 13 April 2011 entitled ‘Single Market Act — Twelve levers to boost growth and strengthen confidence in the Single Market’ — “Working together to create new growth” (OCT) 12.4.2011)
last update 28.02.2016



Summary 161:
Reform of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) rules on the allocation of payment entitlements to farmers
REFORM OF THE EUROPEAN AIM OF THE REGULATION
Regulation (EC) No 73/2009 on the application of the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) to the allocation and distribution of payments to farmers (recast)
SUMMARY
WHAT DOES THE RECOMMENDATION DO?
It sets out the rules for applying the common agricultural policy (CAP).
It repeals and repeals Regulation (EC), which had to become law in the EU countries by 1 January 2014.
KEY POINTS
Direct support
The European Union (EU) provides direct support to farmers for the production of crops, livestock, forestry, fisheries, forestry and aquaculture.
The regulation sets out rules on:
the maximum level of direct support for each hectare of land (e.g. €2,000 per hectare);
the minimum threshold for direct support per hectale (e, for example, €100);
a list of eligible land holdings (i.e. the number of hectares of land for which a farmer is entitled to receive direct support).
Eligible land holdings
EU countries are allowed to apply certain limitations when carrying out the first allocation of direct payments:
they must ensure that the eligible area of the holding is not less than 1 hectare;
the number of beneficiaries does not exceed 1,000;
they may not grant more than €100 per hectares to the same farmer in the same year;
to farmers in Bulgaria, Croatia, Romania and Hungary.
They must also ensure that beneficiaries are not granted more than one hectare.
In addition, EU countries must refrain from granting direct payments to certain natural and legal persons unless such persons can demonstrate that their agricultural activity is not marginal.
Payment entitlements
When calculating the value of the payments to be granted to farmers in 2019, the European Commission is allowed to take historical factors into account, provided that no payments in 2019 have a value lower than 60% of the average. However, in order to avoid disruptive financial consequences for farmers, the Commission may decide to reduce the amount of payments granted in 2019.
Direct payments to large beneficiaries
The Commission may, in exceptional cases, decide to increase the level of payments for large beneficiaries by up to €10,000 in the following calendar year:
from 1 January 2019 to 1 January 2021;
from 31 December 2021 to 31 December 2023;
on 1 January 2023 to 30 June 2023 for farmers in Hungary, Croatia and Romania whose direct payments are subject to phasing-in;
until 31 December 2025 for those farmers in Romania, Bulgaria, Hungary and Hungary who are not subject to a phase-in process.
A number of other rules apply, including:
rules on the eligibility of certain types of land holdings;
rules for the transfer of certain seeds and certain plant varieties to the European Union Rural Development Fund;
measures to ensure that seeds and plant varieties are not transferred to the EAFRD for the first time in the first year of their life cycle.
Rules on the distribution of certain entitlements, such as:
grants for the establishment of the legal persons or groups concerned;
grantments for the protection of certain species of wild fauna and flora;
guarantees for the conservation and management of certain protected species of flora and fauna;
reciprocal access to the EU Rural Development Funds.
FROM WHEN DOES IT APPLY?
The Regulation has applied since 31 December 2009.
BACKGROUND
The CAP was reformed with effect from 1 January 2013.
For more information, see:
Directive support for farmers (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Direct support: the amount that farmers receive from the EU’s general agricultural policy.
* Indirect support: support that is paid directly to farmers.
MAIN DOCUMENT
   கம  
Council Regulation (EEC) 2017/852 of 30 November 2017 on the adjustment of the levels of the direct support provided to farmers under the common Agricultural Policy for the period 2013-2020 (reform of Regulation (EU, Euratom) (OJ L 347, 31.11.2017, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (e) No 752/2017 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 30.02.2021



Summary 162:
Support programme for the smaller Aegean islands (SAAG)
Support Programme for the small and medium-sized Greek islands (SAG)*
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 852/2008 establishing a support programme to the smaller islands of the eastern Aegea
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
   
It sets out the rules for the implementation of the EU support programme for smaller islands in the eastern Mediterranean, the so-called ‘Aegean Islands’.
KEY POINTS
The programme covers:
the supply of agricultural products and the preservation and development of local agricultural production;
the production, processing, marketing and transport of local raw and processed products.
The support programme is designed to:
ensure the supply of quality agricultural products to the islands;
encourage farmers to supply quality products;
promote the marketing of local products and reduce transport costs;
support the development of the local agricultural sector;
provide technical assistance to the local authorities in order to improve the quality of the agricultural products they produce;
contribute to the sustainable management of the region’s natural resources.
Implementing acts
The regulation sets out:
a forecast supply balance so as to quantify the annual supply requirements for the islands with regard to agricultural products. It must be prepared by the competent local and regional authorities designated by Greece, which must submit it to the European Commission for approval after consulting the competent authorities and organisations at the appropriate regional level;
a list of the islands covered by the programme;
rules for the application of export and import licences for agricultural products, and for processing products, for export to non-EU countries.
An implementing act in accordance with Article 290 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) is delegated to the Commission in respect of supplementing or modifying certain non-essential elements of the regulation.
In order to carry out the programme, Greece must continue to have at its disposal sums equivalent to EU support already granted under Regulation (EU) No 1405/2006 on rural development (see summary).
Implementation of the programme
The European Commission is responsible for implementing the programme. It may adopt implementing acts to supplement or modify certain elements of this regulation, in the light of the changes proposed by Greece. These acts may take account of the following elements: the importance of the new measures, whether the changes to the budget allocated to the measures are substantial, changes in the quantities and in the level of aid for products in the forecast supply balances and any amendments to codes and descriptions laid down in Council Regulation (EEC) Nos 2658/87 on the tariff and statistical nomenclature and on the Common Customs Tariff.
Amendments to the regulation
Greece may submit amendments to the programme to bring it more in line with the requirements of the small islands and the strategy proposed. These amendments must be submitted within the framework of the annual evaluation of the implementation and must be substantiated by the Commission.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
It has applied since 1 April 2008.
BACKGROUND
 
  * KEY TERMS
* Agricultural support programme: a European Union policy to assist local production in the smaller and medium sized Greek islands.
* Smaller islands: those in the Eastern Mediterranean, except Crete and Evia, which are part of the larger Aegeo-Mediterranean region.
MAIN DOCUMENT
 			
Commission Implementing Decision 2008/852/EC of 27 April 2008 establishing a European support programme on the smaller Islands of the east Mediterranean (OJ L 127, 28.4.2008, pp. 1-24)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EC, No 856/2008 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
  (1)
Council Regulation (CFSP) No 1698/2005 of 20 September 2005 on support for rural development by the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD)
See consolidated version.
last update 14.02.2016



Summary 163:
Road transport statistics: the carriage of goods by road (Regulation (EU) 2019/852)
Road transport Statistics: EU countries’ statistical data
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation(EU) No 852/2019 laying down rules for the collection and transmission of statistical data on the carriage by road of goods
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It lays down rules on the collection, transmission and processing of statistics on road transport by road in the European Union (EU).
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to:
the carriage by means of a combination of road transport vehicles, namely road train or articulated vehicle, in which the goods road transport vehicle and the trailer or semi-trailer are registered in different countries;
vehicles used for combined transport (i.e. when the vehicle is a road train made up of a lorry with trailer);
vehicle-related variables (including: the type of transport;the number of vehicles registered;the load capacity of the vehicle;the place of unloading of goods;the type of road journey made by the vehicle.
It does not apply to Malta, so long as the number of Maltese-registered vehicles licensed to engage in the international carriage of vehicles by road does not exceed 400 vehicles.
Data collection
EU countries must forward to Eurostat, on or before the date on which the first quarterly information is forwarded, a report on the methods used in compiling statistical data. These methods must be sufficiently precise so as to enable the Commission to have comparable, reliable, synchronised, regular and comprehensive statistical data, whilst taking account of the structural characteristics of the road transport in the EU.
The transmission of the data must take place within 5 months of the end of each quarterly period of observation. The Commission must adopt, where necessary, delegated acts in accordance with Article 290 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU, in order to take account of economic and technical developments, except for any modifications to the optional nature of the required information.
National authorities must ensure that their methods for collecting and processing the statistical data are designed to ensure that the statistical results transmitted to the Commission are sufficiently precise to enable it to have at its disposal comparable and reliable, reliable and comprehensive data.
Where necessary, the Commission may adopt delegated acts concerning the updating of Part 1 of Annex I of the regulation, except where this is optional.
In addition, EU countries must submit a report to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions on their methods of collecting and transmitting statistical data and the methods of processing the results. The report must, if appropriate, be accompanied by proposals for modifying the list of variables, taking into account the findings of related projects, in particular those on air pollution emissions caused by road transport.
References
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Commission Implementing Decision 2011/856/EU
12.12.2011
-
OJ L 127 of 12.12 of the same day.
RELATED ACTS
Council Regulation (EC) No 182/2011 of 12 December 2011 laying down the rules for road transport of goods (Recast) (Official Journal L 131 of 13.11.2011)
Regulations (EC, Euratom) No 552/2013 and (EC), No 553/2013 of the European Central Bank and of the Council of 11 December 2013 laying down detailed rules for collecting, transmitting and processing statistical data for the carriage in the Union of goods and of vehicles carrying out this transport and repealing Council Regulation (Euratom) (OJ C 202/2013) ( Official Journal L 136 of 13 December 2013).
last update 04.02.2021



Summary 164:
Transmission and service of judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil and commercial matters between EU countries
Transmission, service and reimbursement of costs
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 1348/2000 on the transmission and the service of documents between Member States of the European Union
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes a system for the transmission, the service and the reimbursement of the costs relating to the transmission of documents and the receipt of these documents.
It sets out the rules for the establishment of the central body responsible for:
supplying information to the transmitting agencies;
seeking solutions to any difficulties which may arise during transmission of the documents for service;
forwarding, in exceptional cases, at the request of a transmitting agency, a request for service to the competent receiving agency.
KEY POINTS
Each Member State must designate one or more central bodies to:
provide information on judicial or extrajudicial proceedings;
make available a manual containing information relevant for the proper application of this regulation;
draw up a manual for the European Judicial Network in Civil and Commercial Matters.
The central body must:
ensure that the information and documents transmitted are transmitted by the fastest possible means of transmission;
send a receipt as soon as possible and in any event within 7 days of receipt;
notify the transmitting agency when it receives a document.
A receiving agency must forward a document for service but not having territorial jurisdiction to serve it to the receiving agency with territorial jurisdiction in the same Member State if the request complies with the conditions laid down in the regulation, and must inform it accordingly using the standard form set out in Annex I.
When a document is refused to be served, the applicant may refuse to accept the document. The applicant may, however, be reimbursed for the costs of the service or the return of the document within 1 week if it is not either in a language which he understands or in the official language or one of the official languages of the place of service.
If the applicant has refused to accept a document, the issue can be remedied through the service on the person concerned or by reimbursing the costs.
Where a document cannot be served within a specified period, the date to be taken into account with respect to the applicant should be that determined by the law of that Member State. This regulation sets out a system where it is the country of law of the Member State addressed which determines the date of service, and not that of the EU country of origin.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
The regulation entered into force on 1 June 2001.
BACKGROUND
The European Union (EU) has adopted a convention on judicial cooperation in civil matters. This convention aims to establish an area of judicial cooperation for the purposes of the proper functioning of the internal market.
For more information, see:
‘Judicial cooperation’ on the European Commission's website.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1201/2002 of 27 May 2002 on the application of Regulation (EEC) no 1348 /2000 of the Council of 26 May 1997 on the service in the Member States (OJ L 347, 28.6.2002, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EU, Euram) No 127/2002 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
Regulations (EC (EC), Euram and Euratom Implementing Decision (Euram Implementing Decisions) No 1/2006 and (EURAM) No 2/2007 laying down the procedures for the exercise of implementing powers conferred on the Commission pursuant to Council Decision 1999/468/EC of 28 June 1999 laying down procedures for implementing Council Decisions 1999/469/EC and 1999/548/EC laying down rules for implementing the Council Convention on the Service of Judicial and Extrajudicial Documents in Civil or Commercial Matters and Council Decision 2001/1348/EC establishing a Convention on Judicial Cooperation in civil or commercial matters.
Commission Implementing Directive 2001/14/EC on the Transmission, the Service and the Reimbursement of the Costs of the Transmission of Documents and the Repayment of Costs of Repayments of the Services of Documents (EC Implementing Directives 2001/15/EC, 2001/16/EC) and 2001/17/EC (OJR Implementing Regulations) (EC Commission Implementing Delegated Decisions 2001/18/EC/EC), 2001/19/EC & 2001/23/EC).
See consolidated version.
last update 04.02.2021



Summary 165:
Advanced therapy medicinal products — Regulation (EC) No 552/2006
Advanced therapy medicines — Regulation(EC) no 552(2006)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC, EC, EC) No 550/2006 on the regulation of advanced therapy medicines for human use
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out the rules for the authorisation, authorisation and labelling of advanced therapies* for the treatment of diseases and dysfunctions of the human body.
It does not apply to the use of any specific type of human cells, such as embryonic stem cells, or animal cells.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to:
genetic therapies* and somatic cell therapy* medicinal products;
tissue engineered products*;
somatic cell therapies*.
Genetic therapies are those based on genes, cells or tissues that have been genetically modified to have therapeutic properties.
Somatic cells are those that have the ability to repair or replace a human tissue.
Tissue-engineered products are those which have the potential to repair, replace or repair a human body’s own tissues or organs.
The European Agency for Medicinal Products for Human Use (EMA) is responsible for authorising, authorising and supervising the manufacture and importation of these products. It is assisted by the Committee for Advanced Therapies, an advisory group set up by the European Commission.
EU Member States may decide whether to authorise or prohibit the manufacture, importation or use of such products.
Manufacturers must ensure that their products comply with the rules laid down in the regulation.
Labelling
The product characteristics, labelling and the package leaflet must be adapted to the technical specificities of the products covered by the regulation, taking into account the specific technical characteristics of the advanced therapy medicinal product.
Products which are prepared on a non-routine basis according to specific quality standards, and used within the same Member State in a hospital under the exclusive professional responsibility of a medical practitioner, in order to comply with an individual medical prescription for a custom-made product for an individual patient, are excluded from the scope of the regulation whilst at the same time ensuring that relevant Community rules related to quality and safety are not undermined.
In addition, products containing or consisting of engineered cells and tissues, and presented as having properties for, or is used in or administered to human beings with a view to regenerating or replacing a tissue, are not covered by this regulation. However, they may be subject to specific labelling requirements to reflect the specific nature of those products. The labelling must also be adapted, where necessary, to reflect these specific characteristics.
Quality and safety
The quality, safety and efficacy of the approved products must be assessed by a committee set up under the authority of the European Medicines Agency (EMA). The committee must prepare a draft opinion on the quality of the product for final approval by the Commission. The committee may also provide scientific advice on whether a given product meets the scientific criteria which define advanced therapy therapeutic products, as well as to address, as early as possible, questions of conformity with other areas such as cosmetics or medical devices, which may arise as science develops.
Amendments to the regulation
Amending Regulation (EU) No 540/2006 has been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULATIONS APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 January 2006.
BACKGROUND
 
 Â  Â
     
  барантанка (‘advanced therapy medicines’) is a new field of biomedicine that offers new opportunities to treat diseases and disorders of the body. The European Commission adopted Directive 2001/83/EC laying down principles and detailed guidelines for good clinical practice as regards investigational medicinal products for human uses.
For more information, see:
* KEY TERMS
* Genetic therapy: a product that:
contains or consists of genetically modified human cells (e.g. stem cells);
somatic cell therapy: an engineered cell or tissue that is capable of repairing, replacing, repairing or repairing a human organ or tissue; or
soma-based therapeutic product: a therapeutic product that can be administered to a patient.
* Tissue engineered product: any tissue or cell-based product that has been genetically engineered to have the properties of a human or tissue-based medicine.
MAIN DOCUMENT
  i.e. the regulation concerning the authorisations, authorisations or authorisations for the manufacture or importation, including the labelling, the presentation and the packaging, and the scientific advice of the Commission, of advanced therapeutic medicinal products and of tissue engineered products (OJ L 183, 1.1.2006, pp. 1-8)




Summary 166:
Emissions from motor vehicles
Exhaust emissions from motor cars
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 552/2006 on type approval of motor vehicles and their trailers
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
   
 
It sets out rules on the type approval procedure for motor vehicles.
It aims to improve the quality of the air in the European Union (EU) and to reduce air pollution.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to:
motor vehicles with a reference mass not exceeding 2,000 kg and which meet the conditions laid down in Annex II to Directive 70/156/EEC;
vehicles covered by the regulation’s Annex III to Directive 98/69/EC (see summary);
vehicle types covered by Directive 2004/3/EC.
Manufacturers must ensure that:
all new motor vehicles in the EU have the same type of exhaust emissions control device;
all vehicles are tested and certified in accordance with the emission control requirements set out in Annex I to the regulation;
the vehicle type approval procedures are carried out by the European Commission and the competent authorities of the EU Member States.
In addition, the regulation lays down rules for in-service conformity, durability of pollution control devices, on-board diagnostic (OBD) systems, measurement of fuel consumption and accessibility of vehicle repair and maintenance information.
EU Member States must ensure:
that all new vehicles covered by this regulation are tested, certified and certified according to the requirements;
that new vehicles comply with the requirements laid down by the Commission.
Member States must provide the Commission with a list of authorised dealers and repairers.
The Commission may, at the manufacturer's request, extend the scope of type approval granted under this regulation to M1, M2, N1 and N2 vehicles, as defined in Annex III of the regulation, which are not more than 2,500 kg in mass and which do not exceed the emission limit values in Annexes I and II to this regulation.
Implementing measures
In order to ensure that the regulation is implemented effectively, the Commission must adopt:
a number-based approach to emissions of ultra fine particulate matter (PM 0.1 µm and below) as well as to recalibrate the particulate mass based limit values;
measures to reduce nitrogen oxide emissions from diesel vehicles;
monitoring of the fuel consumption of diesel vehicles and the accessibility of the information provided by authorised dealers;
a system for emission control which has the capability of identifying the likely area of malfunction by means of fault codes stored in a computer memory;
requirements for the monitoring of the exhaust emissions of certain types of pollution-control devices;
rules on the availability of technical information for independent operators on the same basis as for authorised dealers.
References
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Directive 2006/34/EC
1.7.2006
-
OJ L 127 of 1.7.2006
Amending act(s)
Entry INTO FORCE
Regulations (EC, EC, EC) No 603/2006, 2006/35/EC and 2006/36/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council
1) Implementing Regulation (EC), EC, EEC, EFTA, EC and EFTA-EC of 3 April 2006 laying down the technical requirements for type approval and type-approval procedures relating to the emission of certain gases, oxides of nitrogen and hydrocarbons (O2, NO2 equivalent) (O 2, NO3, NO4, NO5, NO6, NO7, NO8, NO9, NO10, NO11, NO12, NO13, NO14, NO15, NO16, NO17, NO18, NO19, NO20, NO21, NO22, NO23, NO24, NO25, NO26, NO27, NO28, NO29, NO30, NO31, NO32, NO34, NO35, NO36, NO37, NO38, NO39, NO40, NO41, NO42, NO43, NO44, NO45, NO46, NO48, NO54, NO55, NO56, NO57, NO58, NO59, NO60, NO61, NO62, NO63, NO64, NO65, NO66, NO67, NO68, NO69, NO70, NO71, NO72, NO73, NO74, NO75, NO78, NO79, NO80, NO81, NO82, NO83, NO84, NO85, NO86, NO87, NO90, NO91, NO92, NO93, NO94, NO95, NO96, NO97, NO98, NO102, NO103, NO104, NO105



Summary 167:
Food safety: common procedure for the authorisation of food additives, food enzymes and flavourings
Food safety
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 1334/2008 establishing the European Food Safety Authority and laying down procedures in matters of food safety
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out the procedure for authorising food additives*, food enzymes*, flavourings and certain food ingredients with flavouring properties for use in and on foods.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to substances authorised to be placed on the European Union (EU) market or used in foodstuffs for human consumption. It does not apply to:
food additives,
food enzymes*,
food flavourings*
food ingredients with flavouring properties.
Authorisation procedure
The Regulation sets out a common procedure to authorise food additives* and food enzymes* for the placing on the EU market or use in foods. It applies to the following substances:
the substances listed in each sectoral food law, which contribute to the free movement of food within the EU and to a high level of protection of human health and the protection of consumer protection;
foodstuffs which are subject to a ban on their use in the EU.
Food additives, enzymes and food flavourings, to the extent that the safety of flavourings must be assessed in accordance with Regulation (EC).
Food flavourings which are not on the Community list of authorised substances must not be put on the market and used in foods, unless they are included on a Community list.
foods which have been authorised substances are not covered by the common procedure.
The common procedure covers the following.
Applications for authorisation
The European Commission must assess the validity and applicability of the application within 9 months of receiving a valid application from the applicant. The Commission may refuse to grant authorisation to a substance if it considers that it is likely to have a serious adverse effect on human health or the environment.
If the Commission does not object within 8 working days of being informed by the Authority, the period referred to in Article 5(1) of the regulation is automatically extended by the additional period.
Applying for an authorisation must be accompanied by scientific data and other information submitted by the applicant for a certain period of time. Applications must be sent to the Commission within 8 weeks of receipt of the Commission’s reply.
In addition, the Commission must inform the Authority of the reasons for rejecting an application. The Authority must give its opinion within nine months after receiving the application. If the Commission considers that the application does not comply with the conditions laid down in the regulation, it may decide to extend the scope of the procedure to other legislation in the area of food.
It may also decide to apply the urgency procedure to remove a substance from the Community lists and for adding, removing or changing conditions, specifications or restrictions associated with the presence of a substance on the lists.
Where appropriate, the specific sectoral law may provide for protection of scientific data, other information and the confidentiality of certain information.
EU countries must notify the European Commission of any changes to the EU list of substances. This information must be made public and must be in a language easily understood by the general public.
An application must be submitted to the authority within 8 months of receipt. The application must contain:
a description of the substances concerned;
a risk assessment of the risks to human health;
an explanation of the conditions under which the substances are to be authorised;
the reasons why the substances should not be authorised and the reasons why they should be kept off the market;
information on the conditions and conditions of authorisation for the substances to be kept on the list;
procedures for removing, removing, changing or changing the conditions or specifications associated with their presence on the EC lists. The European Commission may also adopt measures to remove, remove or change the conditions of the authorisations.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULATING APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 January 2009.
BACKGROUND
 
  The regulation establishes the European food safety authority (EFSA). The EFSA is responsible for the implementation of the general principles and requirements of EU food law and the procedures laid down by it.
For more information, see:
Food Safety Authority (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Authorisation procedure: the procedure under which a substance is authorised for the use in food. It is the procedure by which the Commission authorises a substance to be used in the food sector.
* Food flavourings: flavourings that are flavourings or food ingredients that are flavouring substances.
• Food enzymes: food enzymes that are food enzymes or flavourings.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Commission Implementing Decision 2009/852/EC
1.1.



Summary 168:
Accreditation and market surveillance of products from non-EU countries and the CE marking (Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 652/2002)
Accreditation & market surveillance
SUMMARY OF:
Delegated Regulation (EC) No 608/2002 on the accreditation, market surveillance, controls of non-European Union (EU) products and the European conformity marking
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes a system of accreditation* for the assessment of products by national conformity assessment bodies (NCBs).
It sets out the conditions for the recognition of NCBs by EU countries.
KEY POINTS
National NCBs are recognised by the European Commission as competent bodies for the purpose of carrying out conformity assessments in the EU.
The purpose of the regulation is to ensure that national NCBs carry out their tasks in accordance with the principles of mutual recognition.
NCBs are not for profit and must not engage in activities that are not intended to add any gain to the resources of the body’s owners or members.
In order to ensure the proper functioning of their accreditation system, EU countries must monitor their NCBs regularly and take appropriate corrective measures within a reasonable timeframe where necessary.
EU countries must ensure that the NCBs that have been accredited by the Commission are made available to the competent authorities of the EU countries in order to carry out market surveillance checks on the products they assess.
Where an NCB is recognised by an EU country, it must be made public and, where appropriate, accessible to the conformity assessment authorities.
National NCBs must also be made available in the form of grants to the body recognised under this regulation without a call for proposals, or by the award of contracts to that or to other bodies, depending on the nature of the activity to be financed and on the financial situation of the NCB.
FROM WHEN DOES THE DECISION APPLY?
Directive 2001/95/EC has applied since 1 January 2002.
BACKGROUND
The European Commission has adopted a number of measures to improve the safety of consumer products. These include:
the harmonisation of the laws of the Member States on the labelling of products;
the introduction of a common framework for the marketing of products.
For more information, see:
Consistent products (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* CE marking: a product is CE marked if it meets all the essential requirements of EU law.
* Manufacturer: any person or body that has manufactured a product and has a legal responsibility to market it in the European Union.
ACT
Council Delegation (EC), Euratom, 26.2.2002, pp. 1-8
RELATED ACTS
Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 30 May 2001 regarding public access to European Parliament, Council and Commission documents and repealing Council Regulation No 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the Community (OJ L 347, 27.6.2001, p. 1)
last update 04.02.2016



Summary 169:
Arrest warrant: extradition procedure between the EU and the 3 Nordic countries and Iceland, Norway, the Kingdom of Norway and the Republic of Iceland (Agreement on extradition pursuant to an arrest warrant)
Arbitration procedure: extradition between the 3 countries and the EU
SUMMARY OF:
Agreement between the European Union (EU) and its Member States and the countries of the Nordic countries (Norway, Iceland and the United Kingdom of Iceland) on the extradition procedure for the purpose of prosecution or execution of sentences between the three countries
Decision 2002/852/EC — conclusion of the Agreement on extradition for the purposes of prosecution and execution of sentence
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE AGREEMENT AND OF THE DECISION?
The agreement establishes a system for the extradition of persons who have been arrested in one of the three Nordic countries: Denmark, Norway and Iceland.
The decision concludes the agreement on behalf of the EU.
KEY POINTS
The extradition procedure is based on a mechanism of surrender:
the arrest warrant;
the surrender of a person to the country of the issuing country; and
the execution of the arrest warrant.
An arrest warrant may be issued by a country having made a declaration that nationals will not be surrendered or that surrender will be authorised only under certain specified conditions.
A country may refuse to execute the warrant if it considers that the offence is punishable by a custodial sentence or detention order in the country in which issued the warrant or if it does not allow prosecution for the same offences when committed outside its territory.
In addition to the list of grounds for non-execution of the warrant is the following:
double criminality: the offence was committed in whole or in part in the territory of the executing country or in a place treated as such as a place of special interest to that country;
there is a risk of double criminality, i.e. the same offence being committed by the same person in two different countries;
a description of the circumstances in which the offences were committed, including the time, place and degree of participation in the offence by the requested person;
any penalty imposed, if there is a final judgment, or the prescribed scale of penalties for the offence;
other consequences of the offence.
Norway and Iceland may make a declaration to the effect that, on the basis of reciprocity, the conditions set out hereafter shall not be applied under the terms of the agreement.
If the country issuing the warrant does not consider that a person will not surrender, it may decide to issue a warrant for the arrest of the person who has been arrested. The executing country may decide that the person in question does not have the right to be extradited.
There are also grounds for refusing to execute a warrant:
a person has not given his or her consent to be arrested;
an offence has been committed outside the country to which the warrant has been issued; or
the person is a national of a country other than that of the country which has issued it.
Where the country executing the warrant considers that it is not capable of carrying out the warrant, it can refuse to do so.
When a person is arrested, he or she must be informed of the reasons for the refusal and of the conditions under which they are to be surrendered. If they do not comply with these conditions, they may be returned to their country of origin.
Amendments to the agreement
The parties undertake to ensure that the extradition system between, on one hand, the EU, and the two countries on the other hand, consists of a system of surrender pursuant to a warrant issued by the country on whose territory the person is being arrested. This system will be based on the following mechanisms:
an alert system (SIS);
the extradition of the arrested person by means of the alert system;
reciprocity between the countries.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
The Agreement entered into force on 1 July 2002.
BACKGROUND
   
 
The EU has adopted a number of measures to improve the extradition procedures between its member countries and its neighbouring countries. These measures include:
establishing a European Arrest Warrant Information System (EAWISA);
introducing a system to facilitate the exchange of information between the SIS and the judicial authorities of the countries which have issued the arrest warrants;
ensuring that the European Judicial Network (EJN) is set up.
For more information, see:
EU extradition procedures (European Commission).
MAIN DOCUMENTS
Council Decision 2002/884/EC of 27 June 2002 concerning the conclusion of an Agreement between the Council and the Member States of the Union and the Governments of the Three Countries, of the one part, and Norway, Iceland, the State of the Kingdom, the Union of the Free State of Iceland, Denmark and the State in question, concerning the surrender for prosecution or the execution of a sentence between the one party and the other party (



Summary 170:
Rail passengers’ rights — Regulation (EC) No 652/2006
Rail passengers' rights — Article 652(2)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 608/2006 on the rights of rail passengers
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to ensure that rail passengers have a high level of consumer protection in the field of transport.
It lays down rules on:
the carriage of passengers by rail;
the information and service quality of rail services;
accessibility of trains for disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility;
facilities through which reservations may be made or tickets or through tickets may be issued to the extent that some or all of these facilities are made available to users.
KEY POINTS
Railways must ensure that:
passengers have the right to:
information on rail services and to travel by rail without undue difficulty;
to purchase tickets for rail journeys;
their personal security in railway stations and on trains and to manage risk.
Passengers must have access to the information and services provided by railway undertakings concerning:
fares and special conditions for rail services,
access to trains for persons with disabilities,
the accessibility of trains and the facilities on board.
Transport contract
A transport contract is a contract of carriage for reward or free of charge between a railway undertaking or a ticket vendor and the passenger for the provision of one or more transport services.
A ticket vendor may offer a ticket to a passenger for more than one transport service for the same transport contract.
The carriage of a passenger on a single transport contract must be accompanied by a statement of the conditions for the carriage of the ticket.
the ticket vendor must provide the passenger with information on the conditions of the carriage and of the train.
Railway undertakings must also provide information to passengers on the accessibility of railway services, access conditions of rolling stock, accessibility of passenger facilities and the facility on board, as well as on the management of risks to the personal security of passengers and the handling of complaints.
EU countries may grant temporary exemptions from the application of the regulation to long-distance domestic rail passenger services. These exemptions may be renewed, on a transparent and non-discriminatory basis, for a maximum period of 5 years.
In addition, EU countries may apply the rules of this regulation to urban, suburban and regional rail passenger journeys.
Exemptions from the regulation
The regulation does not apply to certain services or journeys because a significant part of the rail passenger service, including at least one scheduled station stop, is operated outside the EU.
Amendments to Regulation (Euratom).
Amending Regulation (EU) 2019/852 amends the regulation in line with the European Commission’s communication ‘Consumer Policy Strategy 2002-2006’, which sets out the objectives of the European Union in relation to rail passenger rights.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
Directive 2001/14/EC has applied since 1 January 2006.
Directives 2001/15/EC, 2001/16/EC and 2001/18/EC have applied since 31 December 2001.
BACKGROUND
The European Union has adopted a number of measures to improve the protection of passenger rights on the rail transport market. These include:
Article 153 of the Treaty on European Union on the right of the person to be treated fairly and with due regard to his or her health and safety;
Article 154 of the Lisbon Treaty on the approximation of the laws of the Member States to the principles of public administration and to the requirements of the Council of Europe on public procurement.
For more information, see:
Passenger rights on rail transport (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Passenger: any person travelling by rail.
* Railway undertaking: any public or private undertaking the activity of which is to provide transport of goods and/or passengers by railway on the basis that the undertaking must ensure traction.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Commission Implementing Decision 2001/13/EC of 21 December 2001 laying down the rules on the carriage by rail of passengers.
Successive amendments to Directive 2001/12/EC are incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
Communication from the Commission to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions: Towards a European Union rail transport policy (COM(2006) 652 final - Not published in the Official Journal).
Commission communication of 22 May 2006 on the implementation of the consumer protection policy in the area of rail transport. The European Union is committed to ensuring that rail transport is a high-quality, safe and secure mode of transport for all passengers and that passengers are treated with respect to their rights and to their personal security.
Commission Communication of 19 March 2001 on the interoperability of the conventional rail system (



Summary 171:
Quality of European statistics in the field of education and lifelong learning (ECS-EEC)
Quality of Europe-wide statistical information on education and learning (EEC-E)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 552/2008 establishing a common framework for the systematic production of Community statistics in education and training
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
   
 
It establishes a common European statistical information system for the production of European Union (EU) statistics in relation to education, training, lifelong learning.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to all EU countries. It covers:
education and training;
vocational education;
labor market statistics.
It does not apply to:
children’s studies;
students’ studies.
Data collection
EU countries must collect data on:
the number of students and graduates;
education expenditure;
income and living conditions;
graduates’ living conditions.
The European Commission (Eurostat) is responsible for the collection and processing of EU-wide statistics in all the fields covered by the regulation. The regulation sets out the rules for the transmission of data subject to statistical confidentiality to the European Statistical Office of the European Union.
Implementation of the regulation
Eurostat:
is responsible for:
collecting and processing the data;
transmitting the data to Eurostat;
preparing and analysing the results;
analyzing the results of the pilot studies carried out by EU countries and the results from the Adult Education Pilot Survey performed between 2005 and 2007;
examining the suitability of existing EU data sources;
ensuring that the data sources are suitably suited to the requirements of Eurostat and the legal context of existing data sources.
In addition, Eurostat must:
prepare a report every 5 years on the quality of the data it has collected;
inform the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) of the measures taken to improve the quality and reliability of EU statistics in this field;
conduct pilot studies to be completed on a voluntary basis by the EU countries;
assist Eurostat in the preparation of a report on the implementation of this regulation;
make recommendations to the Commission on the use of the information it has obtained.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
It has applied since 14 February 2008.
BACKGROUND
 The Lisbon strategy aims to create a European system of higher education.
For more information, see:
‘Education and training’ on the European Commission's website.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Council Decision 2008/552/EC
14.2.2008
-
OJ L 184 of 14.2, 2008
RELATED ACTS
Commission Implementing Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1588/90 of 11 June 1990 laying down the rules on transmission of statistical data to the Statistical Office (Euratom, EEC) and on the statistical programme committee established by Council Decision 89/382/EEC.
Commission Decision 2006/512/EC of 14 February 2006 laying down rules on the collection, processing and analysis of data for the purposes of the preparation, analysis and dissemination of European Community statistics on education (Official Journal L 184, 14.3.2006, pp. 1-11)
Commission Regulation (EU, Euratas) No 1177/2003 of 17 November 2003 implementing the European Council Conclusions on European cooperation in vocational education (OJ C 17, 17.11.2003).
See consolidated version.
last update 14.02.2016



Summary 172:
Energy statistics
Energy data
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 552/2008 on energy statistics
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out the rules and procedures for the reporting of energy data to the European Union (EU) by EU countries.
KEY POINTS
The regulation requires EU countries to report quantitative energy data.
EU countries must provide the European Commission (Eurostat) with a report every 5 years on the quality of the data transmitted and on any methodological changes that have been made.
The Commission may grant exemptions or derogations to EU countries from those aspects of the energy data collection that would lead to an excessive burden on respondents.
National statistics
Eurostat must:
establish a list of data sources, the national statistics and the applicable clarifications or definitions as well as the transmission arrangements;
establish and modify the renewable energy statistics, once incorporated, and the final energy consumption statistics.
Establish a set of annual nuclear statistics which must be reported and disseminated from 2009 onwards, that year being the first reported period, without prejudice to confidentiality, where it is necessary, and avoiding any duplication of data collection, while at the same time keeping production costs low and the reporting burden reasonable.
establish an annual nuclear statistical set which must cover the nuclear energy sector in the EU and cover the whole of the EU, except for the Canary Islands and the European Atomic Energy Community (see Annex A).
establish the set of final electricity consumption statistics (see below).
Every 5 years, Eurostat must send a report to the Commission on the data it has received from EU countries, including:
the number of respondents;
the quality of data transmitted;
any methodological changes made to the national data transmitted by the EU countries;
a description of the methodological changes Eurostat has made in relation to the reporting and dissemination of the national energy data;
data to be forwarded and the relevant clarifications, definitions and definitions of the technical terms used in the annexes.
In addition, the Commission may:
make modifications to the list of sources of data,
modify the national electricity statistics,
the transmission arrangements,
establishing and modifying the nuclear statistics
the set of energy consumption.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULTRY APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 January 2009.
BACKGROUND
 
  The regulation is one of a series of measures designed to ensure that energy data are up-to-date and reliable.
Directive 2001/77/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 September 2001 on the promotion of electricity produced from renewable energy sources in the internal electricity market (the ‘Renewable Energy Directive’) and Directive 2004/8/EC on the promoting of cogeneration based on a useful heat demand (the 'Cogeneration Directive') (see summary).
For more information, see:
‘Energy statistics’ on Eurostat's website.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Commission Implementing Decision 2008/552/EC
1.1.2009
-
OJ L 127 of 1.1. 2009
RELATED ACTS
Directives 2001/78/EC and 2004/9/EC establishing the European Energy Statistical System (EESS) (Official Journal L 136 of 27.9.2001).
DirectIVE 2004/12/EC implementing the Renewable Energy Directives (Directive 2004/10/EC, 2004/11/EC) and 2004 /8/EU establishing the EU Energy System and establishing a European Strategy for Sustainable, Competitive and Secure Energy.
See summary.
last update 14.02.2016



Summary 173:
Rights of passengers and persons with reduced mobility in the transport of goods and passengers in the European Union (EU) — rules for non-discrimination and assistance during their journey (Regulation (EC) No 596/2006)
Rights and non-discriminatory contract conditions for passengers and passengers with reduced Mobility
RIGHTS OF PASSENGERS AND PASSENGER*
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation No 598/2006 — rules on the rights of passengers, passengers, disabled persons and persons of reduced mobility when travelling by bus and coach
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes rules for the rights and assistance of passengers travelling by public transport in the EU.
It aims to ensure that passengers have the same level of protection as those of other EU citizens.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to:
bus and coach passengers;
passengers and passengers’ representatives;
travel agents and terminal managing bodies.
Passengers must be fully informed of their rights under this regulation, so that they can effectively exercise those rights.
They must be provided with information regarding the service before and during the journey, including:
the timetable;
the conditions and conditions of the ticketing and ticketing procedures;
information on the conditions of access to the terminal;
access to the service;
conditions for the carriage of passengers in case of an accident arising out of the use of the bus or coach.
the right to a safe and proportionate assistance following the accident.
In addition, passengers are entitled to compensation for death, including reasonable funeral expenses, or personal injury, or loss of or damage to luggage due to accidents arising from the use.
The rules also apply to the following:
medical treatment and treatment of passengers following an accident;
refusal of refusal to carry the disabled person or to refuse to carry a disabled person.
Transport contract conditions
The contract conditions and tariffs applied by carriers must be offered to the general public without any direct or indirect discrimination based on the nationality of the final customer or on the place of establishment of the carriers, or ticket vendors within the Union.
Ticket prices
The ticket prices must not be less than:
EUR 220 000 per passenger;
€ 1 200 per item of luggage;
Eur 1 200 for each item of baggage;
e.g. less than € 220 000 for a round-trip ticket;
less than € 1,200 for a return ticket.
Non-discrimination
Carriers must:
not discriminate on the grounds of nationality;
not charge a higher fare than the average fare for the same journey;
ensure that all passengers are treated equally in terms of their mobility;
take all necessary measures to ensure the safety and security of the passengers and their luggage, in particular by:
ensuring that passengers are accompanied by a qualified person with a disability;
providing them with information and assistance in the event of accidents;
assisting them in the case of delays or cancellations of a regular service.
Disabled persons
Passenger representatives and terminal managers must ensure that:
all passengers are provided with adequate information on the services offered to them;
they have access to all available transport facilities;
there is no discrimination on grounds of their disability or their reduced mobility.
Terminal managing bodies must take into account the needs of disabled persons when designing and implementing new terminals, and as part of major refurbishments, in accordance with ‘design for all’ requirements.
Consultation and cooperation with stakeholders, professional associations and associations of customers, passengers and disabled persons
The European Commission must cooperate in order to adopt arrangements at national or European level for the implementation of this regulation.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULATIONS APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 January 2006.
BACKGROUND
 
  ICT (European Transport Agency).
For more information, see:
‘Passenger rights’ on the European Commission's website.
MAIN DOCUMENT
  Е 
Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 550/2006 of 21 December 2006 on the rules on passenger rights and the conditions for non discrimination and assistance on the journey of persons and mobility in transport (OJ L 157, 24.12.2006, pp. 1–20)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EEC) no 550/06 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
  i.e. Directive 2002/36/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 December 2002 on the harmonisation of the laws of the Member States relating to the carriage, taxation and administration of passengers by means of public transport and repealing Council Directives 90/314/EEC and 90/316/EC and Directives 93/8/EC, 93/9/EC.
Directive



Summary 174:
Statistics on aquaculture
Statistics on aquatic organisms
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 852/2008 on the production of Community statistics on the Aquaculture sector
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
 
It establishes a common legal framework for the systematic production of EU statistics for the EU’s fisheries sector.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation covers:
the annual production (volume and unit value) and the number of species of aquatic organisms (aquaculture, ornamental and plant species);
the production of hatcheries and nurseries in number of those species;
the number of molluscs and crustaceans in the wild and transferred to a controlled environment.
It does not cover:
transferred to a non-controlled environment;
aquariums;
tanks and raceways;
artificial units constructed above or below ground level capable of high rates of water interchange or with a high water turnover rate and highly controlled environment but without water recirculation.
EU countries must submit the data referred to in Annexes II, III and IV to the European Commission (Eurostat) within 12 months of the end of the reference calendar year. The period laid down in Article 4(3) of Decision 1999/468/EC shall be set at three months.
The Commission must submit an evaluation report every 3 years on the statistics compiled pursuant to this regulation.
Evaluation report
By 31 December 2011 and every three years thereafter, Eurostat must submit a report to the EU Parliament and the Council on the quality of the statistics it has compiled. The report must describe how the data were collected and compiled.
References
Act
Entry into force
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 782/2008
31.12.2008
-
OJ L 183 of 31.12 of the same date.
Amending act(s)
Entry in force
Date of expiry
Official journal
Regulations (EC, Euratom) No 596/2009, (EC and Euratom).
Amendments to Regulation (EC), Euratom.
Directive 2009/852/EC.
Decision 2009/946/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 December 2009 establishing a common framework for statistics in the field of fisheries and repealing Council Regulation No 322/97 on Community Statistics (Official Journal L 284, 31.10.2009, pp. 1-12).
Regulating (EC).
Directives 2009/10/EC, 2010/11/EC and 2011/13/EC establishing a European statistical system for the production and management of fishery statistics.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULATIONS APPLY?
It has applied since 1 January 2008.
BACKGROUND
   
For more information, see:
Aquaculture statistics (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Aquacultural organisms: aquatic organisms, including fish, crustacean species and aquatic plants.
* Water: water where the salinity is appreciable and where the water temperature is above 0.5°C.
MAIN DOCUMENT
 			
Council Regulation (EEC) 2008/856/2008 of 31 December 2008 establishing a Community statistical system on the Production of Community Statistics on the Aquatic Sector (OJ C 183, 30.11.2008, p. 1)
Successive amendments to Council Regulation (e.g. Annex II) have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
Council Implementing Decision 2009/975/EC amending Council Regulations (Euratom), No 598/2009 and 2010/12/EC as regards the production, production and production of aquatic species and of aquatic plant species and the management of the fishery sector and repealing Regulation No 882/2003 as regards:
Council Regulations (EC" No 1882/2002" and (EC") No 479/2003" of 31 October 2003 on Community fisheries statistics" and "Regulation [EC] No 478/2004" of the General Assembly and Council of 26 November 2003 on the European Fisheries Statistical System" (Official J L 284 of 31 November 2003).
See consolidated version.
last update 04.02.2021



Summary 175:
Control and enforcement of fishing vessels in the North-East Atlantic fisheries
Control and Enforcement of Fishing Vessels
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 1224/2009 on the application by the European Union of the scheme of control and enforcement applicable to fishing vessels operating in the waters of the Convention Area which lie beyond the waters under the fisheries jurisdiction of the contracting parties
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes the general rules and conditions for applying by the EU of the Scheme adopted by NEAFC.
The convention on future multilateral cooperation in North-east Atlantic fisheries, as amended by the Convention on the implementation of the Agreement on the conservation and management of fishery resources in the area defined by the convention, sets out the rules for the implementation by EU countries of the regulation.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to all fishing vessels flying the flag of contracting parties and operating in EU waters.
EU countries must send to the European Commission, in a computer-readable form, a list of all vessels flying their flag and registered in the EU which are authorised to fish in the regulatory area, in particular the vessels authorised directly to fish for one or more regulated resources, and any amendments to the list. The list must include:
the number of fishing days since the start of fishing, or since the last catch report;
the estimated cumulative catches retained on board;
a daily report on the amount of fish discarded and the fishing depth and the number of fish on board.
Vessels must inform the Commission of the date and time, according to Universal Coordinated Time (UTC) of the transmission of a report and the radio call sign of the fishing vessel from which the catch has been off-loaded.
National authorities must notify the Commission within 15 days of the end of each fishing day of the 15th day of each month of the calendar year of the period covered by the regulation, in accordance with the rules laid down in Article 33 of Regulation (EC) No 624/2004 on the management of fisheries (see summary).
The Commission must adopt delegated acts in respect of detailed rules concerning lists of the fisheries to be notified, procedures for prior notification of entry into port and for the cancellation thereof as well as authorisation to land or transhipment.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
 
   
It has applied since 1 July 2009.
BACKGROUND
  The convention on the operation of fisheries in the north-eastern Atlantic (known as the ‘Convention Area’) was adopted in 2006.
For more information, see:
Fisheries: North East Atlantic Fisheries Convention (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Fishing vessel: any fishing vessel not flagged in a contracting party, including vessels for which there are reasonable grounds for suspecting them to be without nationality.
* Convention Area: an area defined in the Convention of the International Maritime Organization (IMO).
* Non-contracting party vessel: a vessel not flagging in an EU country.
MAIN DOCUMENT
  i.
Council Regulation (EU, Euratom, Member States of the one part, and the European Economic Area, meeting within the Council of the Union, of 3 July 2009 on the general application of the Regulation adopted by the Committee of the Regions of the European Parliament and of the Council on the Implementation of the Regulations of the Parties to the Convention (OJ L 347, 29.7.2009, pp. 1-11)
Successive amendments to Regulation (Euratom, Euratox, No 1212/2009 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 14.02.2021



Summary 176:
Ecolabel scheme: rules for the establishment and application of the voluntary EU Ecolabel Scheme
Ecolabelling scheme: details
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 652/2009 — rules for establishing and applying the voluntary European Union (EU) ecolabel system
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes the European Union’s (EU)* voluntary ecolabilisation scheme.
It aims to improve the environmental performance of products and to encourage higher environmental performance in all sectors for which environmental impact is a factor in consumer choice.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to all food and feed products, except for medicinal products for human use, as defined in Directive 2001/83/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 6 November 2001 on the Community code relating to medicinal products, or for veterinary use, and to any type of medical device. It does not apply to products certified as organic.
Rules for the setting up and applying of the scheme
Each EU country must designate the body or bodies responsible for carrying out the tasks provided for in this regulation (‘the competent bodies’) and ensure that they are operational.
The competent bodies must ensure that the verification process is carried out in a consistent, neutral and reliable manner by a party independent from the operator being verified, based on international, European or national standards and procedures concerning bodies operating product-certification schemes.
They must also ensure that competent bodies meet the requirements laid down in Annex V.
Eligible products
the regulation sets out the criteria for the award of the EU EColabel and the conditions for the use of the EColombolabel.
A maximum number of products may be eligible for the Ecolabelled. The regulation does not cover:
food and feed;
energy-related products;
animal feed; and
animal health products.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
It entered into force on 1 July 2009.
BACKGROUND
   
The European Commission has adopted a regulation on the setting of ecodesign requirements for energy related products in the EU.
For more information, see:
‘Ecolabsorbents’ on the European Commission's website.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Directive 2009/125/EC
1.8.2009
-
OJ L 127 of 21.4.2009, pp. 1-8
RELATED ACTS
Commission Implementing Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 552/2010 of 27 May 2010 laying down the rules for setting up the European Ecodesign Scheme (Ecolabus) (Official Journal L 136 of 27.5.2010).
last update 04.01.2015



Summary 177:
Supplementary protection certificate for medicinal products
Supplementary Protection certificate
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 1906/2006 — supplementary protection certificate
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It codifies and repeals Council Regulation (Euratom) No 1901/2006 on the provision of supplementary protection certificates for the marketing of medicinal products.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to:
any medicinal product protected by a valid basic patent and for which the first authorisation to place it on the market as a medicinal product was granted before the patent is granted, provided that the application for a certificate was lodged within 6 months of the date on which the patent was granted;
any product covered by a patent granted before 1 January 2000.
The protection conferred by a certificate may extend only to the products covered by the authorisation or authorisations to place them on the EU market.
It does not apply to products protected by national or European patents.
Expiry of the certificate
The certificate may lapse:
at the end of the period provided for in Article 13;
if the certificate holder surrenders it;
in the event that the annual fee laid down in Article 12 is not paid in time;
as long as the product no longer meets the conditions of protection.
Applying for an extension of the duration of a certificate
Where an application for an extended duration is pending, an application must include the particulars referred to in Article 7(3) of the regulation (see summary) and a reference to a certificate already filed.
Application for an application to extend the duration must include:
the number and date of authorisation granted and the product identified in that authorisation;
where relevant, the number of authorisations granted to place the product on the European market in accordance with Directive 2001/83/EC;
the duration of the extension.
If the application does not meet the conditions laid down, the applicant must ask the applicant to rectify the irregularity or settle the fee within a stated time. The applicant must also inform the competent authority of the EU country in which the application was lodged. The authority must inform the applicant of the reasons for its decision.
When the certificate lapses, notification must be published in the Official Journal of the European Union (Official Journal).
Appeals
The decisions of the competent authorities of EU countries are open to the same appeals as those taken in national law against similar decisions taken in respect of national patents. These decisions are binding on the holder of the patent.
References
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Directive 2001/82/EC
1.1.2007
-
OJ L 378 of 27.7.2006
RELATED ACTS
Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 652/2006 of 27 June 2006 on the supplementary protection of medicinal product certificates granted to the holder by each Member State at the request of a Member State for the purpose of marketing authorisation relating to a product for which a patent has been granted (Codified version) (OJ C 202, 28.6.2006, pp. 1-8)
last update 04.10.2016



Summary 178:
Convention on the jurisdiction of courts and tribunals in civil and commercial matters (OJ L 347, 30.11.1973)
Convention of the Hague on jurisdiction of the courts and courts of the countries bound by the Convention on the application of the laws of the European Community (Oj L 347)
SUMMARY OF:
Decision (EU) 2017/852 on the conclusion of the Convention of Amsterdam on the exclusive jurisdiction of European courts and the courts of European Union countries on matters relating to tort, delict or quasi-delict
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE CONVENTION AND OF THE DECISION?
The convention aims to ensure that the European Court of Justice (ECJ) has exclusive jurisdiction in all matters of law in the European Union (EU). It does not apply to revenue, customs or administrative matters.
The decision concludes the convention on behalf of the EU.
KEY POINTS
Objectives of the convention
The Convention applies to:
any person who is domiciled in an EU country bound by this convention, irrespective of their nationality;
any party to a contract entered into by the consumer and the other party to the contract, both of whom are at the time of conclusion resident in the same EU country, and which confers jurisdiction on the courts in that country;
all persons who are liable for liability arising from the use or operation of ships, installations or aircraft, in particular loss of freight or charter-hire.
any one of the parties may be sued in the courts for the place where the harmful event occurred or may occur.
Any person who pursues commercial or professional activities in the EU country of domicile or directs such activities to that country or to several countries including that country and the contract falls within the scope of such activities.
Claims for limitation of liability
The court of the country in which the action is brought may also have jurisdiction over claims for limitation.
Where the law governing such direct actions provides that the policyholder or the insured may be joined as a party to an action, the same court may have jurisdiction.
Jurisdiction of courts
The courts of each EU country must have exclusive jurisdiction, regardless of the nationality of the defendant, in proceedings relating to the registration or validity of any European patent granted for that country irrespective of whether the parties are nationals of that country. The same court also has jurisdiction in proceedings which have as their object the validity of entries in public registers, and in proceedings where the register is kept in the country where the registration is kept.
A consumer may bring proceedings against a contract either in the court of that party or in the one for which the contract is entered into.
An employer may be brought against a consumer, except insofar as the insurance is compulsory or relates to immovable property in a State bound by that convention.
Insurers may also be sued, except in the case where the contract relates to the insurance of the insured.
In addition, the court in which an insurance policyholder is insured may bring a lawsuit against the insurer.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
The agreement on jurisdiction entered into between the EU and the EU countries on the convention entered into force on 30 November 2017.
BACKGROUND
The Amsterdam Convention is one of a series of international conventions on jurisdiction which have been concluded by the European Economic Community (now the EU). The convention applies to all EU countries, except Denmark.
For more information, see:
‘The Hague Convention’ on the European Commission's website.
MAIN DOCUMENTS
Council Decision 2001/853/EC of 30 November 2001 on the entry into force of the Conventions of Amsterdam and of the Courts of the Governments of the Member States of the Union on the exercise of their exclusive jurisdiction over matters concerning the application, in civil matters, of the rules of jurisdiction there in force, and those specified in Annex I to the convention, and repealing Council Regulation (EEC) No 552/96 (O J L 347 of 30.10.2001)
Council decision (EU, Euratom) 2017 / 852 of 29 November 2017 on the approval of the Protocol of Amsterdam concerning the accession of the Council to the Convention in the field of jurisdiction conferred on it by the Council of the United Nations on the protection of persons and property against the effects of natural disasters and on the liability of persons, companies, undertakings and undertakings in the event of the occurrence of a natural disaster or of a harmful event.
last update 04.02.2021



