Summary 0:
Cross-border distribution of collective investment undertakings
Cross–EU cross–border distribution
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) 2019/1160 — requirements for marketing communications
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It lays down minimum requirements for the marketing communications* and pre-disclosure* documents* of collective investments* (UCITS* and AIFs) in the European Union (EU).
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to marketing communications, including:
a key investor information document (KIID) for a collective investment undertaking;
a marketing communications document for a UCITS management company;
the marketing communications of a qualifying social entrepreneurship fund.
It does not apply to the marketing of investment products.
The marketing communications must:
be published in a language easily understood by investors;
be clearly identifiable as marketing communications;
notify the competent authorities of the EU country in which pre-marketing is taking or has taken place;
provide information on the marketing activities that are taking place on that country’s territory.
EU countries must ensure that marketing communications comply with the requirements laid down in the regulation.
Ex-ante verification of marketing communications is carried out by the European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA).
In addition, marketing communications may be subject to ex-ante verifications by the competent national authorities of EU countries.
FROM WHEN DOES IT APPLY?
 
The regulations apply from 2 August 2021.
BACKGROUND
Directive 2009/2011/61/EU on cross-border marketing
EU rules on marketing communications and marketing documents
The European Investment Bank Regulation (EuVECA) lays down rules on the use of marketing materials and marketing communications.
For more information, see:
European Union marketing communications (European Commission).
MAIN DOCUMENT
Commission Implementing Regulation (EC) No 1286/2014/EU of 2 June 2014 on the application of Directive 2009/65/EC with regard to cross‑border marketing communications in respect of the cross‐border distribution and marketing materials of collective investing undertakings.
REFERENCESMA Implementing Decision 2014/1286/EU
2.6.2014:
EU Member States must establish a notification portal into which competent authorities should upload all documents regarding the cross‑international distribution of UCITS and Aifs.
1.7.2015: EU Member States are required to establish a portal to upload documents regarding:
cross‐border marketing materials;
marketing communications for UCITS;
EU-wide marketing materials for AIFS;
ex‑ante verification.
KEY TERMS
* Collective investment undertaking: an investment undertaking that is externally or internally managed, depending on its legal form.
* AIF: a fund that is managed by a management company.
ACT
Council Implementing Resolution (EU, Euratom) No 652/2014 of 20 May 2014 on common rules on cross‐national marketing communications relating to the cross–international marketing communications for collective investments in the Member States.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
Commission Delegated Regulation (EU), Euratom and Euratom of 20 April 2014 on marketing materials relating to marketing materials related to cross‐international marketing of marketing material for marketing materials in relation to marketing material related to marketing campaigns for marketing material relating to investment products (OJ L 347, 20.5.2014, pp. 1-2)
Regulations (EU and Euram) No 596/2014, Euram No 597/2014 and (Euram No 696/2015) of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 April 2014 laying down common rules for marketing marketing materials concerning marketing communications related to investment campaigns for investment products and on marketing campaigns relating to research and development.
Commission Working Document 2014/13/EU establishing common rules concerning marketing materials regarding marketing communications concerning marketing campaigns and marketing campaigns related to research, development and innovation (WDR).
Commission Recommendation 2014/14/EU laying down general guidelines on marketing marketing communications regarding marketing campaigns, marketing campaigns involving marketing materials, marketing materials designed to promote research and innovation.
Communication from the European Commission to the European Central Bank, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions: marketing communications about marketing campaigns.
Last updated: 22.07.2014



Summary 1:
Ensuring the proper application of EU harmonisation legislation on products
Establishing a market surveillance system
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) 2017/746 on market surveillance
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes a system for market surveillance in order to ensure that the harmonisation of EU legislation on goods is applied correctly.
It sets out the procedures for the market surveillance of products.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to products:
from manufacturers to importers;
from traders to consumers.
EU countries must establish a single liaison office.
The liaison office must:
conduct market surveillance;
report to the national market surveillance authorities;
make available on the market any information it receives on risks or non-compliance;
take corrective action if necessary;
ensure that the corrective action that was to be taken by economic operators has been taken.
National market surveillance strategies
Each EU country must draw up a national strategy on the application of the legislation. It must include the following information:
the identity and areas of competence of the national authorities designated under Article 25 of the regulation;
the product classification;
a description of the risks and non-compliances that the product presents.
Joint enforcement
The legislation provides for the setting up of joint enforcement authorities between EU countries.
If a product presents a serious risk to the EU’s financial interests, an applicant authority may submit a duly reasoned request for enforcement measures to a requested authority in that other EU country. These measures must be proportionate, effective and dissuasive.
In addition, EU countries must ensure that adequate financial resources are always available for the appropriate staffing and equipping of the authorities.
Implementing measures
EU governments are required to:
establish a national information and communication system (NICS);
establish the following procedures in connection with products subject to the legislation:
procedures for following up on complaints or reports on issues relating to risks or violations of the law, including:
reporting to the competent authorities of the EU country concerned;
checking that economic operators have taken the necessary corrective action;
monitoring the implementation of the NICS;
assessing the effectiveness of the joint enforcement activities.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
The Regulation has applied since 16 July 2017. EU countries had to incorporate it into national law by 16 July 2022.
BACKGROUND
The EU is one of the largest trading partners in the world. It has the largest single market for goods in terms of value added tax (VAT) and gross domestic product (GDP).
For more information, see:
‘Market surveillance’ on the European Commission's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Importer: any person, company or organisation responsible for placing or making a product on sale in the EU.
ACT
   
Commission Regulation (EC) No 746/2017 of 16 June 2017 laying down market surveillance procedures in relation to the application, on behalf of the European Union, of the Union harmonisation law on products (OJ L 326, 29.12.2017, pp. 1-2)
last update 14.02.2019



Summary 2:
EU rules on rights in retransmission of television and radio programmes
EU rules in respect of rights in broadcasting programmes
SUMMARY OF:
Directive (EU) 2016/852 — rules on the clearance of rights for the provision of online services
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DIRECTIVE?
It aims to improve cross-border access to the broadcasting of certain types of television programmes and to ensure that the rights of the copyright and related rights in the works or other protected subject matter used in the programmes are protected when providing ancillary online services.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The directive applies to all rights that are necessary for a broadcasting organisation to be able to communicate to the public or make available to the general public its programmes when providing online services, including:
the clearance of any copyright, related rights and the rights in phonograms or performances;
the rights in audiovisual works and performances.
It does not apply to the rights exercised by broadcasting organisations for the transmission of their own transmissions.
The scope of the directive does not cover:
rights exercised by the broadcasting organisation regarding authorisation for broadcasting of broadcasts;
rights exercising by the collective management organisation (collective management organisation) of broadcasting organisations regarding authorisations for retransmissions of broadcasts.
EU countries must ensure that, when setting the amount of payment to be made for the rights to which the country of origin principle, as set out in paragraph 1, applies, the parties take into account all aspects of the online service, such as features of the service, including the duration of online availability of the programmes provided in that service, the audience and the language versions provided.
Remuneration
Rights holders must receive appropriate remuneration for the right to transmit their works and other subject matter.
Rightholders should be entitled to a direct share in the remunerations paid by the operator of a retransmitting service. The amount of this share should be calculated according to the revenues of the broadcasting organisations generated by the retransmitter, which are used, in particular, by radio broadcasting organisations.
In addition, the directive provides for a transitional period to allow broadcasting organisations, signal distributors and rights holders to adapt to the new rules on exploitation of works and subject matter through direct injection.
References
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Commission Implementing Decision (EC) No 852/2016
1.1.2016
-
OJ L 131 of 1.1-2.2016.
RELATED ACTS
Commission Delegated Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 531/2012 on roaming on public mobile communications networks within the Union (Official Journal L 310 of 26.11.2012).
Last updated: 27.07.2015



Summary 3:
The.eu top-level domain (TLD) and the.eu Multistakeholder Advisory Group (MAAG)
The.u Top-Level Domain and the MAAG
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 596/2013 on the.u TLD
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes a contract between the European Commission and the European Registry of Top Level Domain Names (Registry of the European Union).
It aims to improve the organisation, administration and management of.eu TLD by the Registry in accordance with the instructions of the Commission resulting from the Commission’s supervisory activities as provided for in this regulation.
KEY POINTS
The regulation establishes:
a registry for.eu;
an advisory group for the management and organisation of the TLD;
a multistakeholders advisory group.
The registry may reserve or register a number of domain names considered necessary for its operational functions under the contract referred to in Article 8(4) of the regulation. These names are reserved or registered by the Commission and may be transferred to the registry by the EU countries.
Registry responsibilities
The Registry must:
ensure that:
the.eu domain name is used only for legitimate purposes;
provide the Commission with all the information it needs to manage the.eTLDN;
carry out its tasks according to the rules and procedures set out in the regulation;
ensuring that the registry is independent from any third parties.
It may reserve, register or transfer any domain names it considers necessary for the operation of the domain name.
In addition, the registry may:
assist the Commission in the implementation of its tasks;
make available to the Commission information it receives from the registry;
use the registry for its own purposes, as well as for the purposes of its advisory group;
take the necessary measures to protect the confidentiality of the registry and its data.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULATIONS APPLY?
The regulations apply from 1 January 2014.
BACKGROUND
The European Commission has been responsible for managing and supervising.eu since 1 January 2013.
For more information, see:
‘.eu’ on the Commission's website.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Commission Implementing Regulation (EC) No 550/2013
1.1.2014
-
OJ L 165 of 18.6.2013
RELATED ACTS
Commission Directive 2013/11/EU of 21 May 2013 on alternative dispute resolution for consumer disputes (Directive on consumer ADR) (Official Journal L 165, 18.5.2013).
Directive 2013/22/EC of the EU Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 on the establishment of a European Internet Registry (OJ C 202, 21.12.2013, pp. 1-2)
last update 04.02.2016



Summary 4:
EU funding for smart, interoperable, sustainable, multimodal, inclusive, accessible, safe and secure mobility: the European Commission’s Connecting Europe Facility (CEF)
European Union (EU) financing for smart and interoperable mobility
The European Commission is establishing a European Commission Communication on the European Communities’ Common Fund for Mobility.
ACT
Council Regulation (EC) No 552/2014/EU of 21 December 2014 on the EU funding for mobility.
SUMMARY
WHAT DOES THIS REGULATION DO?
It establishes a European Communities' Common Fund, the European Union's (EU's) mobility fund.
It sets out rules on how the CEF is to be used.
KEY POINTS
The CEF supports projects in the following sectors:
transport:
smart mobility;
infrastructure;
smart energy;
municipal transport;
information and communication technology (ICT);
information, communication and publicity;
health and safety;
science and technology;
education and training;
environmental protection;
sustainable urban development;
access to affordable housing.
Scope
Actions contributing simultaneously to the achievement of one or more objectives of at least two sectors, as provided for in Article 3(2), points (a), (b) and (c), shall be eligible for EU financial support under this regulation and to benefit from a higher co-funding rate, in accordance with Article 15% of the funding rate.
EU countries must develop their own national multiannual investment strategies in the areas covered by this regulation. The CEFinance strategies must include a description of their priorities.
The Commission must:
identify the priority areas for investment in order to achieve the objectives identified by the Commission;
draw up a list of priority areas to be supported by CEF funding;
provide the Commission with an annual report on the progress made by EU countries in achieving the objectives set out in this regulation;
make recommendations to the European Parliament, the Council and the European Economic and Social Committee (EEC) on how to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the EU's mobility policy.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
The regulation has applied since 1 January 2014.
BACKGROUND
The EU is a member of the World Trade Organization (WTO) and the World Economic Forum (WEF).
For more information, see:
European mobility fund (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Smart mobility: projects that aim to improve mobility by:
improving the mobility of goods, goods, capital and services;
interoperability of transport networks;
motorways: networks that are open to all modes of transport, whether by road, rail, air, sea or other means of transport.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Commission Communication of 20 December 2014 establishing the European Community's Common Fund: Mobility (COM(2014) 552)
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Communication from the Commission to the Council
Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 550/2014
1.1.2014
-
OJ L 183 of 21.12.2014.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
Commission communication on the implementation of the European Common Fund (EC), Euratom).
last update 04.02.2016



Summary 5:
Removal of terrorist content: hosting service providers’ obligations
Removalling terrorist content
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) 2021/784 — hosting service provider obligations
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to improve the functioning of the EU’s digital single market by removing terrorist content.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to all hosting services in the EU.
It does not apply to:
the hosting of websites or hosting of online services;
the content hosted on these services.
The hosting service must:
remove terrorist content or disable access to terrorist content in all EU countries as soon as possible and in any event within one hour of receipt of the removal order;
ensure that the content it removes complies with its terms and conditions;
provide the complainant with the reasons for its decision.
Removal order
A removal order must be issued by the competent authority of an EU country. The competent authority must adopt a decision on whether the order comprises an infringement. If it considers that it does not, it must issue a removal order.
If the order does not contain an infringement, it may be revoked. The decision must be published in the Official Journal of the European Union (OJ).
The competent authority may issue a temporary or permanent suspension of a hosting service if it considers it is necessary for the hosting service to take the necessary measures to ensure that the order is complied with.
Requests for information
Hosting service providers must receive requests for information from the competent authorities of EU countries. These may include:
a description of the content they host;
information on the nature and content of terrorist material;
a list of websites hosting the content;
links to other websites hosting terrorist material.
A request for information may also be made via a contact point. The contact point should serve only for operational purposes.
In the event of a complaint, the hosting provider must provide a copy of the complaint to the complainant. The complainant must also provide the information on the content that was removed and the reason for it, as well as a description of how the content was removed.
When a host fails to comply with its obligations, the complainant may ask the competent national authority to issue a ‘removal order’. This order may be valid for up to 6 months.
FROM WHEN DOES THE REGULE APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 January 2021.
BACKGROUND
The EU has adopted a number of measures to strengthen the fight against terrorism, including:
Directive 2014/46/EU on combating online terrorism;
Directives 2014/47/EU and 2014/48/EU establishing a European Union Agency for Combating Online Extremism and establishing an Agency for the Suppression of Terrorism.
For more information, see:
‘Fighting online terrorism’ on the European Commission's website.
MAIN DOCUMENT
 
Commission Regulation (EU, 2021/783) of 21 December 2021 laying down rules on the hosting of services and on the enforcement of removal orders.
Successive amendments and corrections to Regulation (EEC, EEC, Euratom) No 2101/2011 have been incorporated into the original document. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
Commission Implementing Decision 2014/45/EU of 20 December 2014 on the establishment of a European External Action Service for combating online extremism and combating terrorism.
Communication from the Commission to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions on the implementation of Council Directive 2014/43/EU concerning hosting service provision obligations.
Commission Communication from 20 December 2013 on the strengthening of the online environment against online terrorism and combating terrorist content (COM(2013) 596 final of 21.12.2013).
last update 04.02.2016



Summary 6:
Scientific, technological, economic, environmental and societal impact of Horizon Europe 2021-2027
Scientific and technological, environmental, social, economic and societal impacts of Horizon European Research
SUMMARY OF:
Framework Programme for Research and Innovation 2021/2027 — rules on participation and funding
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE FRAMEWORK PROGRAMME?
It sets out rules on the participation of the European Union (EU) in Horizon Europe, the framework programme for research and innovation (R&I) and the European Innovation Council (EIT).
KEY POINTS
Scope
The programme covers:
research and innovation in the fields of science and technology (R & I) and innovation* (I);
science and technology policy (S&T);
environmental and social impact;
health and well-being.
It is funded by the European Research Council (ERC), the European Commission, the European Economic and Social Fund (EFSF) and Horizon Europe (Horizon Europe).
Programme objectives
The framework programme is designed to:
support the EU countries to increase their R&I activities;
improve the competitiveness of the EU’s economy;
contribute to the sustainable development of Europe;
promote sustainable development.
Programmes
The Framework Programme is divided into 4 pillars:
Global Challenges and European Industrial Competitiveness;
Health and Well-being;
Science and Technology (S & T);
Environmental and Social Impact;
Innovation.
The Horizon Europe programme covers the following:
Research and Innovation in the field of science, technology and innovation:
1.
European Research Fund
The European Research Fund (ERFSPF) is the main funding body for Horizon Europe. It is responsible for:
investing in research and innovative activities in the areas covered by the programme;
providing financial support for research projects;
supporting research projects in the area of environmental and social impacts.
2.European Innovation Council
The EIT is the body responsible for the implementation of the Horizon Europe programmes. It:
provides financial support to research projects and projects in fields of S & T;
coordinates the activities of the EIT;
organises and implements research programmes and projects under the EIFRSF.
3.Seals of Excellence
Seals are open to EU countries and non-EU countries. They are designed to support research projects, projects and activities in areas of S&T, such as:
biotechnology;
biomedicine;
medical research;
aeronautics;
materials and materials science;
information technology;
space research.
4.European Research Council
This body:
is responsible for implementing Horizon Europe and its programmes;
is chaired by the Commission.
FROM WHEN DOES THE PROGRAMME APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 January 2021.
BACKGROUND
 
Horizon Horizon Europe is one of the most important instruments of EU policy. It aims to contribute to achieving the EU's objectives of sustainable development and to improve the quality of life of its citizens.
For more information, see:
‘Hoya Europe’ on the Commission's website.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Finance Regulation (EC) No 596/2011
1 January 2021
-
OJ L 183, 1.1.2021, pp. 1-8
RELATED ACTS
Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 652/2011 of the Council of the Europe establishing a European Research and Development Fund
1 October 2011 establishing the European Regional Development Fund and establishing a Fund for Innovation and Entrepreneurship (ERDF)
1 December 2011 establishing a fund for innovation and entrepreneurship (EURDF).
1 February 2012 establishing the Fund for Research & Innovation (FRD) for Europe (FIDO).
Last updated: 27.02.2014



Summary 7:
EU programme for the development of the European Union’s space industry
EU programme to develop the European Space Agency (ESA)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 596/2013 — EU programme for developing the EU's space industry (European Space Agency)
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes the EU programme ‘ESA’.
It sets out the objectives of the programme and the rules for its implementation.
KEY POINTS
Objectives
The programme is designed to:
promote the development and use of space technology;
contribute to the creation of a competitive and dynamic European space industry;
improve the safety and security of sensitive national infrastructure;
provide for the protection of the interests of the EU and to comply with EU rules.
Eligibility and participation
ESA is funded by the EU budget and is managed by the European Commission. The programme is open to any EU country wishing to participate in it.
EU countries are required to apply the eligibility and participation conditions laid down in the regulation.
The European Commission must inform the programme committee of all EU countries’ views on the scope of application of and the justification for those eligibility conditions, as well as the reasons for those conditions.
A security monitoring structure is set up by the Commission when appropriate after the risk and threat analysis has been carried out. It is responsible for:
monitoring the programme;
ensuring that the programme complies with the requirements laid down by the regulation;
assisting the Commission in its decision-making process;
;
preparing a report on the results of the security monitoring;
examining the programme.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
  
The regulation entered into force on 1 January 2013.
BACKGROUND
The EU programme is one of a number of EU programmes designed to develop and develop the space industry. The other programmes are:
the EU programme on space technology (see summary);
the European Union programme for space research and development, which aims to improve the performance of European research institutes and research centres;
the ESA programme for research and innovation in the field of space.
For more information, see:
European Union programmes (European Commission).
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 550/2013 of 21 December 2013 establishing the European programme for development and operation of the Space Agency, and repealing Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
Commission Implementing Decision (EU), Euratom and Euratom Implementing Regulation (Euratom) 2015/852 of 27 November 2015 on the implementation of the Programme for the Development of the Union's Space Industry (European Union programme) (European Agency for Space Technology) (ESA programme).
Decision 2014/853/EU of Euratom of 26 November 2014 on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Parliament and the Council on the establishment of a European Union Space Agency and on the European Agency for Research and Innovation (ESA).
Council Decision 2014/955/EU on the signing, on behalf of the Commission, of the agreement between the Commission and the European Atomic Energy Community on the organisation of the ESA programme (European Atomic Energy Agency).
last update 04.01.2016



Summary 8:
European Digital Innovation Hubs programme (EDI) 2021-2027 (see summary)
European Digital innovation hubs programme (See summary).
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2020/2093 establishing a European digital innovation hub programme
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION AND THE DECISION?
The programme establishes a network of European Digital Innovation HUBs to support the development and deployment of cutting-edge technologies such as artificial intelligence (AI) and high-performance computing (HPC) in Europe.
The aim of the programme is to create a European ecosystem that provides the necessary HPC and data capabilities for Europe to compete globally.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The EDI programme is designed to support:
the development and acquisition of the advanced digital skills needed for the deployment of new technologies in the field of AI or HPC, in cooperation with relevant industries;
the advanced skills part of Erasmus+ complements the programme, addressing the acquisition of skills in all domains and at all levels through mobility experiences.
Objectives
The objective of the EDI is to:
provide access to digital capacities for any business, in particular SMEs, in any region across the EU;
ensure the interoperability and interoperability of the EU’s information and communication technologies (ICTs) with other EU countries;
support the development programmes and initiatives in the area of information and communications technology (ICT);
promote the use of the best use of digital capabilities and interoperability in the context of the digital single market;
;
encourage the sharing of best practices and best practices between EU countries.
Programme objectives
The programmes are implemented in the following areas:
High Performance Computing:
supporting the development of high performance computing infrastructure;
advanced digital skills;
research and development in the areas of artificial intelligence and HPC;
science and technology policy.
Innovation hubs:
establishing a European Innovation Hub in the territory of an EU country;
developing and deploying innovative solutions in the fields of science and technology;
promoting the exchange of best practice and best practice between the EU and non-EU countries in order to improve the quality of research and innovation;
exchange of experience between the national and EU-level innovation hubs.
Evaluation of the Programme
The European Commission will evaluate the programme every 3 years.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
Decision (EU) 2021/2027
 
   
It entered into force on 1 January 2021.
BACKGROUND
The ‘Digital Innovation Hub’ programme was established for a period of 7 years to align its duration with that of the multiannual financial framework laid down in Council Regulation (EU), Euratom.
For more information, see:
European digital innovation hubs (European Commission).
* KEY TERMS
* High performance computing: a system of supercomputers capable of executing 1018 floating operations per second.
* Advanced digital skills: a set of skills that are needed to deploy cutting edge technologies.
ACT
Council Regulation (EC) No 552/2020/2021 of 21 December 2020 establishing a programme for the implementation of the European strategy on HPC (OJ L 183, 21.12.2020, pp. 1-2)
last update 04.02.2021



Summary 9:
EU programme for the development, production and dissemination of European statistics for 2021-2027 (European statistics programme) (European statistical programme)
EU programme to develop, produce and disseminate European statistics
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) 2021/523 — European statistics programme
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes the European statistical programme (ESP) for the period 2021–2027.
It aims to provide the overall framework for developing, producing and disseminating European statistics.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The programme is designed to:
provide the European Commission with the necessary resources and expertise to develop and produce European statistics;
ensure that European statistics are developed, produced and disseminated in accordance with the EU’s statistical code of practice (ECP);
improve the quality and reliability of EU statistical data;
promote the exchange of information between EU countries’ statistical institutes;
contribute to the improvement of the quality of European statistical data.
Objectives
The ESP aims to improve the quality, reliability and accuracy of EU statistics by:
developing and producing European statistics in line with the European Statistical Code of Practice;
improving the reliability and comparability of the EU statistical system;
providing European statistics with a high degree of accuracy;
reducing the number of illegal and non-compliant goods entering the market through targeted awareness raising and training, support for Product Contact Points (PCPs) and better cooperation among competent authorities for mutual recognition.
Sustainable development of the European statistics system
The European statistics must be based on:
the European statistics code of practices (ESDP);
the EU statistics for sustainable development;
the quality of the information and communication systems (ESSPs);
EU statistics for the sustainable development of European tourism and tourism-related activities;
European statistics for research and development (ESDs);
research and development in the field of sustainable development.
The objectives of the ESP are:
to develop, apply, assess and monitor international standards in the fields the specific objective referred to in Article 3(2)(c)(i) of this regulation;
to improve the accuracy of European and national statistical systems.
In order to achieve these objectives, the ESPs must:
be based on the best available international standards;
develop, apply and monitor EU statistical systems;
have a high level of statistical accuracy and reliability;
be open to the participation of non-EU countries in the programme;
participate in the activities of national and international organisations and bodies, such as the World Health Organization (WHO) and the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe (UNICEF).
The Commission may adopt implementing acts establishing lower co-financing rates than those of other EU funding instruments.
Implementation
The regulation sets out the following forms of EU funding:
debt and equity instruments established under the SME policy window of the InvestEU Fund;
investment funds established under Regulation (EU/523/2020;
exchange-traded funds (ETFs) for small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs); and
investments in research and innovation (R&I) programmes.
EU funding may be shared with other Union funding instruments if the envisaged actions under the programme pursue objectives which are common to various funding instruments, excluding however double financing.
Eligible actions
EU programmes may be eligible for funding from one or more EU programmes. They may also receive support from the European Research Council (ERC) or the European Statistics Office (ESO).
EU countries may participate in the EU programme on the basis of their national laws and regulations. The Commission must consult the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee on the Functioning of the Union (Euratom) on the eligibility of EU programmes and projects.
FROM WHEN DOES THE REGUMENT APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 January 2021.
BACKGROUND
The EU programme is part of a package of measures designed to support the development and production of statistics in the European Union (EU).
For more information, see:
European Statistics Programme (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* European statistics: European statistical system: a system of national, regional and sub-regional statistical systems designed to ensure that EU statistics are accurate, reliable and comparable.
* EU statistics: a set of statistical rules and procedures for the collection, processing, transmission, analysis, interpretation, evaluation, interpretation and verification of EU and national statistics, as well as for the dissemination of statistics, including for the purposes of EU policy-making.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force
Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Commission Implementing Regulation (EC) 2019/515
1.1.2021
-
OJ L 129, 19



Summary 10:
European Union rules on the transfer of firearms and their essential components (EU-wide system for tracing)
European Union (EU)-wide system on tracing firearms and its essential components
SUMMARY OF:
Directive (EU) 2015/2403 — transfer of certain firearms and essential components from government stocks to permanent civilian use
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DIRECTIVE?
It aims to protect the public and the economy of the EU against the proliferation of firearms.
It sets out rules on transfers of firearms, their essential parts and their traceability.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The directive applies to all types of firearms:
automatic firearms;
machineguns;
automatic pistols;
battery-operated rifles;
conventional firearms; and
automatic revolvers.
EU countries must ensure that:
the transfer of a firearm or its essential parts from a government stock to a permanent civilian stock complies with the directive’s technical specifications;
the firearm is accompanied by a certificate of authenticity and a unique marking.
Transfer of firearms from a national stock to another EU country
The transfer must comply with the technical specifications for deactivation of firearms set out in Annex I to the directive.
The Commission must ensure, at the time of transfer of the firearm from the national stock, that the unique marking is affixed to the firearm.
National authorities must check that the transfer is carried out in accordance with the rules laid down in Annex II.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS DIRECTIVE APPLACE IN FORCE?
From 8 April 2016.
In accordance with Article 1 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU), EU countries must transfer firearms from their national stocks to the permanent civilian stocks of the other EU countries.
BACKGROUND
The European Union has a system for the exchange of information between EU countries on firearms and the essential components.
For more information, see:
‘Transfer of Firearms’ on the European Commission's website.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Regulation (EU)* No 2403/2015
8.4.2015
-
OJ L 304 of 8.4., 8.8.2015.
RELATED ACTS
Commission Implementing Regulation (EC) No 596/2014 of 8 April 2014 on the exchange and management of information on firearms (European Commission)
Commission Directive (EC, Euratom) No 496/2013 of 8 March 2013 on the establishment of a European Firearms Identification System (European Firearms Information System) (European Firearm Identification System).
Last updated: 27.07.2014



Summary 11:
Maritime National Single Window (EMSWe) for the reporting of ship-to-ship activities
Maritime Navigation Information System (EMSWe)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) 2019/852 supplementing the Maritime Navigation Single Window
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets up a single database for maritime transport information.
It aims to improve the efficiency of the EU’s maritime navigation system (EMSW).
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to:
the maritime transport of goods and services between EU countries;
the transport of passengers and cargo;
passenger transport;
ship security procedures.
EU countries must:
ensure that the data they collect are accurate and reliable;
provide the European Commission with the information it needs;
use the information they collect in accordance with the relevant EU law.
National coordinators
Each EU country must designate a national coordinator, who is responsible for:
monitoring the operation of the EMSW;
ensuring that the information collected is accurate;
assisting the Commission and the European Maritime Safety Agency (EMSA) in the implementation of the regulation;
keeping a list of the national coordinators.
Reporting obligations
The European Commission:
is responsible for the collection and processing of the data it receives from the EU countries.
The Commission must ensure that:
data collected are:
accurate;
relevant;
representative of the relevant national laws and regulations;
inform the Commission of any new reporting obligations that have been adopted;
have been incorporated in the data set;
identify the data elements that are subject to reporting obligations;
notify any new data elements to the Commission without delay.
Data protection and confidentiality
The data collected must be stored in a secure database. Personal data relating to ill on board ships must not be stored on that database.
Implementing acts
An implementing act is adopted by the Commission to supplement the regulation by supplementing it by establishing and amending the EMSWe data set and by determining definitions, categories and data specifications for the information elements, and in respect of the Annex to incorporate reporting obligations existing at national level as well as to take account of any reporting obligations adopted by EU legal acts.
FROM WHEN DOES THE REGULE APPLY?
 
   
It has applied since 15 August 2019.
BACKGROUND
The EMSW is one of a number of EU-wide systems designed to provide the EU with information on maritime transport.
For more information, see:
‘Maritime Transport Information System’ on the EU Commission's website.
MAIN DOCUMENT
  И   барска грациальна на парка (EMSSW) (OJ L 183, 15.6.2019, pp. 1-2)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EU, 2019/952 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 14.02.2021



Summary 12:
E-Tolls: rules on the application of the EU’s electronic toll system (ETS)
E–Tolls
SUMMARY OF:
Directive (EU) 2017/852 on the operation of the Electronic Toll System (EETS)
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DIRECTIVE?
It aims to improve the functioning of the European Electronic Toll system (ETS) by:
ensuring that EETS users are charged a toll on their vehicles when they use the ETS;
improving interoperability between EETS providers;
reducing administrative burdens for EETS service providers.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The directive applies to:
vehicle registration data;
road fee information;
information relating to vehicles;
data relating to the owners or holders of the vehicle.
EETS providers must:
provide toll-charging authorities with access to the following national vehicle registration data, with the power to conduct automated searches thereon;
ensure that these data are made available to the public;
cooperate fully with toll chargers in their enforcement efforts;
use the information they receive from the national contact points of other EU countries’ national toll charging authorities in order to establish a failure to pay a road fee.
Requests for information
EU countries must ensure that:
the competent national authority or entity responsible for levying the road fee forwards the information it receives to the competent authority of the EETS provider within 60 days of receiving it;
the relevant authority forwards it to the relevant authority within 30 days of receipt of the information.
The competent authority in the information, if requested, must provide the relevant information within 15 working days.
In addition, each EU country must make public the contact details of that office, and provide them, upon request, to interested EETS-providers.
Toll chargers must cooperate fully with EETS providers in enforcing road tolls. They must also cooperate with toll-chargers in the calculation of applied toll on the vehicles of EET users by the EET providers, so that the applied tolls are kept to a strict minimum.
Rights and obligations
EETS service providers have the following rights and obligations:
to comply with the rules and obligations laid down in the directive;
to ensure that the toll charger does not disclose such data to any other toll service provider.
to cooperate with the authorities responsible for enforcing road charges.
To ensure that they comply with these obligations, the competent authorities must ensure:
that:
they have the necessary information to identify the vehicle and the owner or holder of that vehicle;
that the vehicle is registered in the EU country in whose territory there was a non-payment of road fees has been established;
they are able to search for the vehicle in the national register of national toll charge offices.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS DIRECTIVE APPLY?
From 1 January 2018.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Regulation (EC) No 852/2017
1.1.2018
-
OJ L 127 of 1.1 2018
Amending act(s)
Entry-exit procedure
Entry and exit procedure
Date of transposition
Expiry procedure
Exemptions from transposition:
from 1 January 2019
1 year
2 years
3 years
4 years
5 years
6 years
7 years
8 years
9 years
10 years
11 years
12 years
13 years
14 years
15 years
16 years
17 years
18 years
19 years
20 years
21 years
22 years
23 years
24 years
25 years
26 years
27 years
28 years
29 years
30 years
31 years
32 years
33 years
34 years
35 years
36 years
38 years
39 years
40 years
50 years
51 years
52 years
53 years
54 years
55 years
56 years
57 years
58 years
60 years
61 years
62 years
63 years
70 years
75 years
80 years
90 years
100 years
110 years
120 years
125 years
150 years
200 years
250 years.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Directive 2009/973/EC of 27 November 2009 on the implementation of the electronic Toll System for the European Union (E-ETS) (recast) (OJ C 202, 28.11.2009, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Directive 2009 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 04.02.2018



Summary 13:
Joint deployment of immigration liaison officers in the Schengen area (EU) and non-EU countries (Recast of Regulation (EC) No 863/2007 on the European Border and Coast Guard and the European Union’s external border management system (EU-2020)
Joint joint deployment of immigrants and asylum seekers
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU/1624 on the joint deployment and coordination of immigration officers
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets up a network of liaison officers (i.e. immigration officers) to help the EU to manage its external borders.
The purpose of the network is to:
ensure that liaison officers work closely with the competent authorities in the EU countries;
provide information and statistics on migration flows;
support the return operations of the EU border and coast guard.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to liaison officers deployed by EU countries to the external borders of non-European Union countries. It does not apply to the United Kingdom (1) or the United States of America (2).
EU countries may decide to extend the scope of the regulation to include liaison officers from non-european countries.
In addition, liaison officers may be deployed by countries other than EU countries. They must have particular consideration for vulnerable persons and take into account the gender dimension of migration flows. They should act accordingly when carrying out their tasks.
Organisation
The Steering Board of the Network of Immigration Liaison officers is composed of representatives of the Member States and is responsible for:
monitoring and coordinating the deployment of the liaison officers;
coordinating the work of the networks;
planning the activities of the liaisons;
identifying deployment gaps and identifying possibilities for deployment;
organising and coordinating activities;
assisting in the preparation of the biennial activity report, including the overview referred to in the second subparagraph of Article 4(1), to be prepared by the Chair;
drawing up the list of deployments of the national liaison officers.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
   
It entered into force on 14 September 2016.
BACKGROUND
 
 Â  Â
 			
For more information, see:
‘The EU’ on the website of the European Commission's Directorate-General for Migration, Refugees and Citizenship (Eurojust).
KEY TERMS
* Immigration liaison officer: a liaison officer whose role is to assist the competent national authorities of an EU country in their cooperation with other countries in the field of immigration.
* Non-EU country: any country outside the EU with which the EU has a bilateral or multiannual agreement on the return of migrants.
ACT
Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 1624/2016 of 13 September 2016 on the Joint Deployment and Coordination of Immigration liaison officers and amending Regulation (Euratom).
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member State
Official Journal
Commission Implementing Decision (EU), Euratom
Decision (EU).
-
OJ L 251 of 16.9.2016, pp. 1-2
RELATED ACTS
                   	
  The European Commission Implementing Regulation (European Parliament and of the Council) 2016/679 of 14 June 2016 establishing a European Union External Border Management System (EUROM) and repealing Council Decision 2004/926/EC.
last update 14.02.2020



Summary 14:
Security standards for identity cards and residence documents for EU citizens and their family members when exercising their right to freedom of movement
Security requirements for identity documents and residence permits
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) 2019/852 — security standards for the security of identity cards issued by EU countries to their nationals and to residence documents issued by Member States to EU citizens
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
This regulation strengthens the security standards applicable to identity cards* issued by the European Union (EU).
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to:
identity cards issued to EU nationals when exercising the right to free movement;
residence permits issued to non-EU citizens when exercising that right.
EU countries must ensure that:
the identity card or residence document is produced by law;
the document is kept in a highly secure manner and only until the date of collection of the document and, in any case, no longer than 90 days from the date it is issued;
there is a contact point for issuing the identity card and residence document.
The card and the residence document must comply with the minimum security standards set out in the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) document 9303 and must be accompanied by a functional MRZ (Magnetic Recognition Zone).
National authorities must:
ensure that the security features on the card are in line with the requirements laid down in the ICAO document;
issue the card in a secure manner;
keep the document for at least 90 days;
no longer than 30 days from its date of issue;
inform the contact point of the identity number and the number of persons who have been issued the identity cards or residence documents;
use the contact points in accordance with EU or national law.
In addition, the regulation sets out a uniform format for residence permits for third-country nationals (OJ L 286, 1.11.2018, pp. 1-3).
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
The Regulation applies from 2 August 2019.
BACKGROUND
The European Union has adopted a number of measures to improve the security and transparency of its internal borders. These include:
Implementing Regulation (EC) No 1030/2002 laying down uniform rules on the issuing of residence permits and identity cards;
implementing Directive 2014/54/EU on the exchange of information and the protection of personal data.
For more information, see:
‘The Schengen area’ on the European Commission’s website.
KEY TERMS
* Identity card: an identification document issued by an EU country to its nationals or to its non-nationals.
* Residence permit: a document issued to a non-European country to allow its nationals to live and work legally in the EU.
MAIN DOCUMENT
   
Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 752/2019 of 3 August 2019 supplementing Council Regulation (Euratom) 2018/746 of 25 October 2018 on the security requirements for the issuing and circulation of identity card (EC), residence permit and contact point documents (EC).
RELATED DOCUMENTS
Council Decision 2014/55/EU of 27 June 2014 on the harmonisation of the laws of the Member States relating to the issuing, circulation and use of residence documents and contact points (EC/2014/726) (OJC) (Official Journal L 286 of 1.6.2014).
Council Implementing Decision (EU), Euratom of 25 June 2014 laying down a uniform framework for issuing residence permits (EEC) for non-european nationals (EC / 2014/826).
Directive 2014/56/EU establishing a European Union Agency for the Protection of Personal Data (EURO) (see summary).
last update 14.02.2021



Summary 15:
Interoperability between EU information systems for security, border and migration management
Interoperation between the EU information system for security and border and immigration management
SUMMARY OF:
Decision (EU) 2019/817 on interoperability between the European information systems (EES, VIS, ETIAS, Eurodac and ECRIS-TCN)
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DECISION AND THE REGULATION?
The decision establishes a European information system (EIS) for the Schengen area.
The regulation aims to improve the interoperability of the EIS, VIS and ETIAS with the aim of improving the security of the EU’s external borders.
KEY POINTS
The EIS consists of:
a central repository for reporting and statistics;
a European search portal;
an ability component.
EIS is designed to be interoperable with:
the European border management system (BMS);
the national border management systems (NMSs); and
the EU border control system (EU-CIS).
The interoperability consists of the following components:
an EIS central repository;
the ability component;
e-LISA.
Each of these components is managed by the European Border and Coast Guard Agency (Eurodac) and the ETIAS Central Unit. It is responsible for:
keeping the database up-to-date;
ensuring that the information it contains is accurate;
providing the relevant information to border guards, customs authorities, police officers and judicial authorities;
collecting, processing and storing the data for the purposes of preventing, detecting or investigating terrorist offences or other serious criminal offences;
assisting border guards and customs authorities in their work.
In addition, the CIS central unit must:
ensure that the data it collects and stores are accurate and reliable;
make available to the relevant national authorities the information they need to prevent, detect or investigate terrorist offences; and
provide the competent national authorities with the necessary information to carry out their tasks.
EU-CRIS
The ETIAS central unit:
provides the relevant data to the European border control systems;
supports the development of the interoperable EIS;
is responsible for ensuring that the EES central repository and the ability component are interoperable;
cooperates with the national border and coast guard systems.
FROM WHEN DO THE DECISIONS APPLY?
They apply from 12 December 2019.
BACKGROUND
The European Commission has adopted a number of measures to improve interoperability in the area of information systems. These include:
establishing a European Information System for Security and Border Management;
developing an interoperable European search engine;
implementing a common set of interoperability requirements for EIS.
For more information, see:
European Information System (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Interoperability: the exchange of information between different information systems, such as the European Union Information System, the European Identification System and the European Central Identification System.
* Identifier: a unique identifier that is used to identify a person or a group of persons.
ACT
Council Decision (EU, 12.1.2019)
-
OJ L 326 of 12.2.2019
RELATED ACTS
Commission Implementing Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 596/2014 of 12 December 2014 establishing a European Interoperable Information System and amending Council Decision (EC) No 496/2013 of 12 November 2013 on the European Interchangeability System (EISA).
last update 04.02.2020



Summary 16:
Energy efficiency and greenhouse gas emissions saving in buildings: energy efficiency and renewable electricity (REFERENCES
Energy efficiency requirements for buildings
SUMMARY OF:
Directive (EU) 2017/852 — energy efficiency requirements in buildings
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DIRECTIVE?
It aims to improve the efficiency and environmental performance of buildings using renewable energy.
It recasts and repeals Directive 2012/27/EU on energy efficiency.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The directive applies to:
new and existing buildings subject to the use of renewable electricity in buildings;
existing buildings subject in renewable electricity;
energy-only-installations;
cogeneration installations;
electricity-only installations.
Sustainability and emissions-saving criteria
The legislation applies to installations with a total rated thermal input of at least 1 kW (kilowatt-hour) and a total rating of at or above 1 MW.
Building installations must comply with the following:
energy efficiency requirements;
carbon capture and storage (CCS) requirements.
EU countries may apply the sustainability and emission-saving criteria to installations that have a lower total thermal input than those for installations with higher rated thermal inputs.
The European Commission must submit a report to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions every 5 years on the implementation of the directive. This report must include:
the number of installations covered by the directive;
the total energy efficiency* and CO2 emissions* saving* requirements; and
the greenhouse gas (GHGCO2) emissions* reductions.
the carbon emissions* reduction targets for buildings covered by this directive.
In addition, the Commission must publish a report on the results of the assessment carried out by EU countries on the application of the legislation.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS DIRECTIVE APPLY?
From 1 January 2018.
BACKGROUND
The EU is the world’s leading exporter of renewable energy and the largest market for renewable energy in the world. This is why it is important to ensure that buildings in the EU have the best possible environmental performance.
For more information, see:
Building energy efficiency (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Renewable electricity: electricity generated from renewable sources such as wind, solar and geothermal sources.
* CO2: the greenhouse gas emitted by the combustion of fossil fuels in the final energy commodity, i.e. the total amount of carbon dioxide (CO2).
* Energy efficiency: the amount of energy that can be used to heat, cool, transport, heat, cook, cook and cool a building.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Directive (EU)* 2017/884 of 21 December 2017 on energy requirements for building installations subject to renewable electricity and repealing Directives 2012/28/EU and 2013/13/EU (recast) (OJ L 347, 28.12.2017, pp. 1-8)
last update 04.02.2018



Summary 17:
Radio spectrum: 5G: harmonised conditions for radio spectrum use and use-by-contracts (5G)
Radio spectrum for 5G
SUMMARY OF:
Directive (EU) 2017/899 on radio spectrum
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DIRECTIVE?
It aims to harmonise conditions for the use of radio spectrum in order to ensure optimal and efficient use of the radio spectrum to enable the development of 5G.
It recasts and repeals Directives 2002/58/EC and 2002/60/EC.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The directive applies to:
radio spectrum;
access to numbers and services;
information and communication technologies (ICTs);
mobile phones;
mobile broadband;
5G infrastructure;
infrastructure for interconnecting fixed-line and mobile broadband networks;
telecommunications infrastructure for mobile broadband.
The regulation applies to the following radio spectrum bands: the 3G, 4G, 5G and 4G bands, as well as the 5G band, which have specific qualities, in terms of coverage and data capacity, which allow them to be combined appropriately to meet 5G requirements.
National regulatory authorities
National authorities must:
apply conditions to individual rights of use for spectrum in accordance with Article 13(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU);
ensure that radio spectrum is allocated according to the requirements of the EU’s 5G legislation;
apply the conditions set out in Annex II to the rules on spectrum allocation;
4G and 5G to ensure that the spectrum allocated to 5G is used correctly and efficiently;
use the spectrum in a way that ensures the optimal and most effective use of spectrum.
Regulatory authorities must apply the conditions laid down in Annex III of the directive.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS DIRECTIVE APPLY?
From 1 January 2018.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Regulation (EU):
1.1.2018
-
OJ L 94 of 1.1 January 2018
RELATED ACTS
Commission Implementing Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2018/852 of 1 December 2018 laying down technical implementing measures for the harmonisation of conditions for use and allocation of spectrum in 5G (OJ C 202 of 31.12.2018).
Regulating Regulation (EC) No 676/2002/EC of the EC establishing a European Radio Spectrum Management Agency (ERMAA).
WHAT DO THE DIRECTIVES DO?
They set out rules on:
requirements for:
the use of frequencies;
the allocation of frequencies and the allocation of capacity;
conditions for the identification of transnational demand (i.e. the amount of spectrum needed to cover a given market);
the identification of pre-paid and post-paid services.
They also set out the conditions on the use, allocation and interconnection of mobile networks.
These rules are designed to ensure:
a high level of consumer protection;
a level playing field for mobile operators;
fair and transparent competition;
harmonised conditions on access to numbers, services and infrastructure, including in relation to premium rate services and other services subject to particular pricing conditions.
In addition, the directive sets out:
rules on the identification and interconnectivity of mobile network infrastructure, such as the availability of mobile phones, and the availability and use of mobile broadband, and on the provision of information and communication technology;
rules for the application of the 4G and 3G standards;
requests on the availability, availability, interconnection and availability of spectrum for mobile networks, including for mobile phones and for pre-pay services; and
rules concerning access to mobile networks and infrastructure.
EU countries must ensure that:
mobile operators have the right to use the frequencies allocated to them and to interconnect them in a manner that minimises interference with other mobile networks in their territory;
all mobile operators have access to the frequencies and capacity required to meet the requirements;
any mobile operator that has significant market power obligations for access or interconnection other than those listed in Articles 69 to 74 and Articles 76 and 80, it submit a request to the Commission for an exemption from these conditions. The Commission then assesses whether the exemption is appropriate.
If the Commission considers that a mobile operator does not meet these conditions, it must inform the national regulatory authority of its decision. The national authority must then inform the European Commission of its opinion and inform the Commission of the reasons for its decision, and, if necessary, issue an opinion on the validity of the exemption.
Amendments to the directive
The following amendments to the original directive have been incorporated into the original text.
Directives (EU), Euratom and Euratom have been recast in the light of technological progress and the need to modernise the regulation.



Summary 18:
Monitoring and reporting of data on CO2 emissions from light-duty vehicles (EU ETS)
Monitoring, reporting and collecting data on carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions from new-vehicle aerodynamic performance
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 510/2011 — monitoring and reporting data on greenhouse gas emission allowances from new passenger cars and light commercial vehicles
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to monitor and report data on the greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions emitted by new vehicles.
It sets out the rules for the exchange of these data between the European Commission, the European Environment Agency (EEA) and manufacturers.
KEY POINTS
The regulation:
sets out the requirements for the EU ETS (the European Union’s system for greenhouse gas emissions trading) and for the non-ETS sectors;
sets emission performance standards for new cars, trucks and buses, as part of the integrated approach to reduce CO2 emission from light vehicles;
requires manufacturers to report to the Commission on the performance of their vehicles and to the EEA on their CO2 performance.
The data must be transmitted in accordance with Article 5(1) by the contact point to the manufacturer via electronic data transfer to the Business Data Rep managed by the Commission.
EU Member States must designate the competent authorities responsible for the reporting and monitoring of data.
Member States must ensure that the data collected are accurate, reliable and up-to-date. They must also ensure that they are made available to the public in a range format in order to take account of considerations of fair competition.
Manufacturers are responsible for verifying and correcting the final data they transmit.
They must also inform the Commission of any discrepancies in the data they send.
If a manufacturer fails to comply with the requirements of the regulation, it may be subject to fines. Those fines should be effective, proportionate and dissuasive.
In addition, Member States are required to ensure that:
the data transmitted by the manufacturer and the Member States’ competent authorities are recorded in a publicly accessible database;
the Commission has the means to verify and, where necessary, correct the data it receives;
all Member States and manufacturers have the right to access the final database on behalf of the Commission;
any Member State that does not comply with this regulation may impose sanctions on the manufacturer or the Member State in which the vehicle is registered.
Report
The Member States have to send the Commission a report every 3 years on the number of vehicles registered in their territory and the total number of emissions they have recorded. The report must include the number and type of vehicle registered in each Member State, as well as the type and number of CO2 allowances issued. It must also include information on the uptake of new and advanced CO2 reducing technologies, and of alternative powertrains.
Reporting
The report must be sent to the European Agency for Safety and Health at Work (EASW), which is responsible for:
monitoring the data transmitted;
checking the accuracy and reliability of the data;
assisting the Commission with the verification procedure;
keeping a database of the information transmitted.
References
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition on the market
Official Journal
Commission Implementing Regulation (EC) No510/2011
29.7.2011
-
OJ L 140 of 5.6.2011.
RELATED ACTS
Commission Delegated Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2018/835 of 29 July 2018 establishing a European Union Agency for Safer Mobility (EU SMART) and amending Regulation (EEC, Euromodal) No 596/2013 (see summary)
Commission Regulation (European Union, Euramodal, Euronews) No 652/2014 of 29 June 2014 establishing a framework for the development and testing of new technologies for the mobility of passengers, goods and capital in the European Union (see consolidated version). See consolidated version.
Commission Decision 2014/856/EU of 29 May 2014 establishing an EU SMART Advisory Committee.
last update 04.02.2021



Summary 19:
Security of gas supply in the EU: emergency preparedness and solidarity mechanism (SPSM)
Security of the EU’s gas supply: emergency plans
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 596/2013 on the security of gas security
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes a common EU-wide approach to gas security.
It sets out the responsibilities of the European Commission, the European Energy Community (EEC) Member States and the Member States’ national regulatory authorities.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to:
gas supply and infrastructure disruption scenarios;
emergency preparedness measures;
security of the gas system;
measures to be taken by Member States in the event of a gas crisis.
EU countries’ responsibilities
Member States are responsible for:
establishing a gas security plan and an emergency plan;
implementing a preventive action plan and emergency plan.
Implementing the emergency plan
The European Commission is responsible for drawing up and implementing the emergency and preventive action plans. These must be in line with EU law and must include:
a description of the risks that could lead to a crisis;
the measures that Member States are required to take in case of an emergency;
an assessment of the impact of the emergency on the economy, the economy and the energy sector;
a list of emergency measures to be implemented.
National authorities must:
ensure that:
the competent authorities, the national regulatory authority and the national transmission system operators;
have the necessary technical, legal and financial arrangements in place;
inform the public of the measures they have taken;
identify the risk factors that could have a negative impact;
provide the public with all necessary information for the common and national risk assessments.
In addition, the Commission:
draw up a permanent reserve list for a monitoring task force consisting of industry experts and representatives of the Commission;
develops and implements the emergency response plan and the preventive actions;
draws up and implements emergency response plans;
ensures that the Commission has the power to issue delegated acts to adopt delegated acts in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 652/2013.
The Commission must ensure that the measures are in place which are in conformity with the EU law, in particular with fundamental rights. These measures must be effective, proportionate and dissuasive. The Commission must also ensure that: the measures taken are proportionate, dissuasive, effective and effective;the measures are effective and proportionate in the case of a natural gas crisis;the emergency response measures are coordinated with other Member States, including the European Network of Transmission System Operators (ENTSOG) and the European Gas Grid Management Group (EGG).
The emergency plan must be updated every 5 years. It must include a description of:
measures taken by the EU and its Member States for the prevention and management of a crisis, including:
preventive measures in the form of emergency plans and emergency response actions,
border measures,
measures for the management of natural gas infrastructure, and
measures that are required for the emergency management of the electricity sector.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
The Regulation has applied since 1 January 2014.
BACKGROUND
   
 
Energy security in the European Union (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Emergency preparedness: measures taken to ensure the safety, security and reliability of the internal gas market.
* Security of gas: measures that can be taken to protect the supply of gas to the EU.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EU), Euratom, Euratom and Euratom Member States of 21 December 2013 on the Security of Gas Supply and Solidarity Mechanism (OJ L 304, 31.12.2013, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (Euratom) No 2596/13 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 04.02.2016



Summary 20:
Rescaled labels for energy-related products
Rescued labels for Energy-related product
SUMMARY OF:
Delegated Regulation (EU) No 812/2013 supplementing Directive 2010/30/EU with regard to the energy labelling of water heaters, hot water storage tanks and packages of water heater and solar device
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
  It aims to improve the visibility of energy-efficient products on the EU’s market.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to:
water heaters;
hot-water storage tanks;
packages of solar devices;
water heater and package of solar device;
waste heaters.
It does not apply to the following products:
gas turbines;
gas-operated compressors;
electricity-operated boilers; and
gas generators.
EU countries may adopt delegated acts for each specific product group.
Labels
The energy label must contain:
the energy efficiency rating of the model;
the name of the supplier;
a description of the product and its characteristics.
The label must be clearly visible and clearly legible. It must also include a link to the product information database.
A dealer must indicate in the database when it no longer places on the market units of a model. The dealer must not display the rescaled labels before that date.
National authorities must ensure that dealers comply with the regulation.
If a dealer fails to comply, the dealer may be subject to a penalty.
Exemptions
The delegated regulation allows the Commission to adopt a delegated act for products which are not covered by the delegated regulation. The delegated act may be amended by delegated acts adopted pursuant to Article 10 of Directive 2010 or by Directive 96/60/EC, where the Commission adopts delegated acts pursuant to this regulation. It may also be repealed by delegated act.
In addition, the delegated act sets out a list of products for which an energy label could be established.
FROM WHEN DOES THE DELEGATION APPLY?
It has applied since 18 February 2013. EU countries had to incorporate it into national law by 18 February 2015.
BACKGROUND
   
 
For more information, see:
‘Energy labelling’ on the European Commission's website.
MAIN DOCUMENT
  Егалка граца дарска
Commission Delegated Regulations (EU, Euratom and Euratom) No 913/2014 supplementing Directives 2010/29/EU and 2010/31/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on the energy label (OJ L 127, 18.2.2014, pp. 1-2)
Successive amendments to Regulation (Euratom) no 913 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
  –
 			
Directive 2014/31 / Euratom on energy efficiency (Official Journal L 347, 28.11.2014).
Directives 2010 and 2001/EC on energy storage and energy efficiency and on the sale of energy recovery products (Official J L 96, 29.3.2010).
See consolidated version.
Regulation (EC) No 696/2004 on energy recovery and on waste management (Official Paper L 347 of 31.12.2004).
last update 04.02.2016



Summary 21:
Protecting personal data in the field of research
Protecting the personal data of the population
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 552/2013 on the protection of fundamental rights and freedoms vis-à-vis the processing of personal data
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
   
 
It aims to ensure that personal data are processed in a way that respects the fundamental rights of the data subjects.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to:
the processing of data on the basis of a person’s consent;
the collection, storage, processing, storage and dissemination of data for the purposes of research;
processing of the results obtained from the processing.
It does not apply to personal data collected by the European Commission or the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights (Euratom).
Processing
The purpose of the regulation is to protect the rights of persons who have the right to their personal data to be processed and to have their data processed in accordance with the law of the EU country concerned.
The processing must be lawful and fair. It must respect the rights and fundamental freedoms of the persons concerned, including:
their privacy and confidentiality;
their right to access and use their data; and
the rights of natural persons, such as the right of access to information and to be informed about their rights.
Data protection
The data must be collected and processed in line with the following principles:
personal data should be collected with the consent of the person concerned;
they should be kept for a minimum of 5 years;
data should not be used for any purpose other than the purpose for which they were collected;
there should be a clear distinction between personal data and non-personal data, i.e. data collected for the purpose of analysing, analysing and disseminating research results;
all personal data should only be processed if they are necessary for the proper functioning of the research programme.
Personal data must not be processed without prior consent from the data subject.
Collection and processing
The collection and processing should be carried out in a manner that is proportionate and fair to the data concerned. It should be based on the best interests of the subjects concerned and should not violate their rights or the confidentiality of their data.
Any processing must respect:
human rights and privacy;
human dignity;
personal security;
natural persons’ rights;
information security.
In addition, the regulation requires that:
data processing must comply with:
appropriate data protection policies and procedures;
appropriate security measures;
adequate data protection measures and procedures for processing;
privacy and security measures.
EU countries must ensure that the processing and storage of data does not violate the rights or privacy of the individuals concerned. This includes:
protecting the confidentiality and integrity of the information;
ensuring that the data are not used for purposes other than those for which it is necessary;
taking appropriate measures to prevent, investigate and investigate the misuse of the collected data;
establishing appropriate data protection procedures and procedures.
Implementing the regulation
The European Commission must establish a European Data Protection Agency (EDA). It is responsible for:
monitoring the application of this regulation;
providing the competent national authorities with information on the implementation of the regulations;
assisting them in their work;
developing and implementing data protection and data security policies;
conducting training and training activities;
implementing data protection training;
creating and maintaining a database of data subjects;
designating a designated representative to ensure compliance with the regulation.
Evaluation
The EDA must be reviewed every 5 years. The EDA is composed of representatives of EU countries and is chaired by the Commission. It is assisted by a supervisory authority, which must:
report to the EDA every 3 years on its implementation;
report annually to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee, the Committee of the Regions and the European Committee on the Protection of the Fundamental Rights of the People and the Committee on Civil Society;
make recommendations to the Commission on the adequacy of data protection;
draw up a report on the application and application of the legislation.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
It has applied since 1 January 2014.
BACKGROUND
The EU has adopted a number of measures to protect personal data. These include:
Directive 2002/58/EC on data protection (see summary);
Council Regulation (EC) No 696/2003 on the processing, storing and dissemination in the fields of research and development of data (See summary); and
Directives 2002/54/EC and 2002/57/EC establishing the European Network of Data Protection Authorities.
For more information, see:
‘Data protection’ on the EEA website.
MAIN DOCUMENT




Summary 22:
Harmonised index of consumer prices (HICP)
Harmonomically-based indicator of price stability in the EU
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 2646/98 — Harmonized Index of Consumer Prices
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes the Harmonized index of Consumer prices*, known as the HICP.
It aims to improve the comparability of EU countries’ national statistics with those of the United Nations (UN).
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation covers the following categories of goods and services:
food and non-food products;
other services;
fees and service charges of brokers, investment counsellors and other services; and
other goods.
EU countries must ensure the quality of the harmonised indices provided.
National authorities must ensure that:
the harmonised data are produced in accordance with the rules laid down in Annex I of the regulation;
the data are collected and transmitted in a consistent and consistent manner.
The Commission must prepare a report on the suitability of the OOH price index for integration into the HCP coverage by 31 December 2018. Depending on the results of that report, the Commission should submit, within a reasonable time frame, a proposal for amending this regulation with regard to integrating the OH price index into the coverage.
Delegated acts
The European Commission is empowered to adopt delegated acts for the amendment of Annex I, in order to ensure comparability at international level. These delegated acts must be adopted by the Commission within 6 months of the adoption of the implementing acts.
Deadlines, exchange standards and revisions
The implementing acts must comply with the following deadlines and exchange standards:
1.1.2019: the date on which the Commission must submit a report to the European Parliament and the Council on its suitability for integration in the Harmonised index;
2.2.2023: the deadline for the Commission to submit a proposal to amend this regulation.
3.3.2025: the deadlines for the revision of the annexes.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
   
It has applied since 31 December 1998.
BACKGROUND
 
 Â      
For more information, see:
‘The Harmonized Indices’ on the European Commission’s website.
* KEY TERMS
* Harmonized indicator: an indicator based on observed prices, which include taxes on products. It is used by the European Central Bank (ECB) to assess the stability of price levels in the European Union (EU).
* Non-food product: a product which is not subject to taxes. It does not include:
alcohol;
alcoholic beverages;
food;
non-alcoholic tobacco;
cooking oil;
medicinal products.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2018/2646
31.12.2018
-
OJ L 283 of 31.12-20.2018, pp. 1-2
RELATED ACTS
                                   
                  
Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2494/95 of 9 December 1998 laying down detailed rules for the implementation of Council Regulations (EC), No 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 28 and 28 of the same year.
See consolidated version.
last update 04.01.2021



Summary 23:
Anti-dumping investigation
Anti-Dumping Investigation
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 552/2004 on the application of the principle of dumping to the EU’s internal market
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes a procedure for the investigation of dumping* in the internal market.
It lays down rules on the investigation and application of duties on imports of certain products from non-EU countries.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to:
all imports of goods originating from outside the EU;
all products originating in the EU, including:
processed agricultural products;
seeds, feed and feed additives;
plastics;
motor vehicles;
electrical equipment;
cable and radio equipment.
The investigation procedure
An EU country may initiate an investigation on the basis of:
evidence of dumping and of resultant injury to the Union industry;
the existence of a particular market situation for the product concerned within the meaning of the disclosure rights of the parties concerned.
An investigation may also be launched at the request of an EU country or any interested party.
EU countries must forward the request to the Commission forthwith. The Commission may decide to open an investigation if it considers that there is sufficient evidence of dumping or of damage to EU industry.
Importers and importers must inform the Commission of the reasons for their decision to launch an investigation.
In the absence of any complaint, a EU country is in possession of sufficient evidence to demonstrate that dumping is likely to have a detrimental effect on the EU industry, and must immediately communicate such evidence to the European Commission.
If the Commission considers that a complaint has been made, it must promptly communicate it to the other EU countries and any interested parties.
Procedures
The Commission may launch investigations on the grounds of the following:
the presence of dumping in the market;
excessive dumping margins;
a lack of conformity with EU rules on dumping margins.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
  
The Regulation entered into force on 1 July 2004.
BACKGROUND
 
Anti dumping investigations
The European Commission has adopted a number of rules to combat dumping. These include:
rules on the procedure for initiating an investigation;
rules for the implementation of investigations;
requests for confidentiality.
For more information, see:
‘Dumping investigation’ on the Commission's website.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Commission Decision 2004/8/EC
1.7.2004
-
OJ L 304 of 1.7-2004
RELATED ACTS
Regulations (EC, EC, EC) No 696/2004 and (EC), EC, Euratom) No 797/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2004 on the protection of intellectual property rights in the field of trade in goods and repealing Council Regulation (EEC, EEC, EFTA) No 852/2003
Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 996/2003 of 12 December 2003 laying down rules for the application, on behalf of the Commission, of the principles of dumping on imports and on the imposition of special measures in the area of industrial policy.
Directive (EU, EU) 2017/852 of the EU Parliament and the Council on the Protection of Intellectual Property Rights in Trade in Goods and amending Council Regulations (Euratom, EU, EC and EC) (OJ C 202, 21.12.2017, pp. 1-2)
Commission Regulation (EC).
last update 14.02.2021



Summary 24:
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 552/2004 on subsidisation
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to protect the EU’s financial interests by:
ensuring fair competition in the agricultural sector;
protecting consumers’ rights;
promoting the sustainable development of the European Union (EU).
It codifies and repeals Council Regulation (Euratom) No 852/2002 on subsidising agricultural products.
KEY POINTS
   
The regulation applies to all agricultural products, including:
grants of subsidies;
recipients of subsidies.
It does not apply to:
exports of agricultural products to non-EU countries;
suppliers’ claims for export performance;
the granting of a subsidy, without having been made a designated geographical region within the jurisdiction of the granting authority.
EU countries must ensure that:
the rules on the calculation of subsidies are based on the best available information;
there is no distortion of competition;
subsidies are not dependent on export performance.
The European Commission may, on a case-by-case basis, request EU countries to supply information to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions. The Commission may also request information from the European Agricultural Committee (EAC).
The Commission may request the EAC to provide information necessary to monitor efficiently the application of measures.
In addition, the Commission may ask EU countries’ competent authorities to supply the information it needs.
to supply information it requires.
Information received pursuant to this regulation must be used only for the purpose for which it was requested.
Duties may be imposed by the Commission only for a 4-month period and may not be imposed for more than 4 months.
Imposition of duties may be subject to certain conditions, such as the following:
a duty must be imposed on imports originating in the EU;
a tariff must not exceed 3% of the value of the goods imported;
an import duty must not be more than 3 % of the total value of goods imported.
A duty may be suspended if the facts demonstrate that a subsidy has been granted.
An investigation must cover both subsidisation and injury, and they must be investigated simultaneously.
If the Commission considers that the subsidy has not been properly applied, it may launch an investigation into the case. The investigation must be open to all interested parties, including the EU countries and the European Commission.
Procedures for investigations
An EU country may submit a request for an investigation to the Commission. The request must be submitted within the time limits set out in the regulation, and must include the reasons, in terms of the EU interest, why the parties should be heard.
Reviews
An annual review of the regulation is conducted by a committee composed of representatives of the Commission and chaired by the Council. The committee is responsible for:
monitoring the implementation of the regulations;
assisting the Commission in implementing the regulation;
reviewing the effectiveness of the measures it has put in place;
examining the rules and procedures it has adopted;
checking that the Commission has applied the regulation correctly.
FROM WHEN DOES THE REGULE APPLY?
 
It has applied since 1 January 2005.
BACKGROUND
The EEC has been amended several times, most recently in 2013.
For more information, see:
‘Sustainable development and food security’ (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Subsidies: a type of economic policy that aims to improve the quality of food and feed for consumers.
* Importers’: any person, company or organisation that receives a subsidy from the EU.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Council Regulation (EC).
-
OJ L 347, 1.1.2005, pp. 1-8
Amending act(s).
last update 04.02.2016



Summary 25:
Recovery and resilience plans for the EU’s economic recovery and growth
Rehabilitation and growth strategies for the recovery and resilience of the economy
SUMMARY OF:
Directive (EU) 2017/1371 on the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF)
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DIRECTIVE?
It aims to improve the economic and growth prospects of the European Union (EU).
It sets out rules on how the EU budget is to be used for this purpose.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The ERDF is designed to help EU countries to:
rebuild their economies;
recover from the effects of the economic crisis;
improve their competitiveness;
contribute to the growth and jobs of the EU as a whole.
EU countries must submit a recovery and recovery plan to the European Commission by 31 December 2018.
The recovery plan must include:
a description of their economic situation;
a review report on the implementation of the plan;
an assessment of the progress made by the country concerned;
measures to be taken to achieve the objectives of the recovery plan.
In addition, EU countries are required to present the relevant information on existing or planned EU financing when submitting their plans to the Commission, including:
the amount of the financial contribution;
the cost of the reform and investment included in the plan, including the estimated total costs of the programme;
investment priorities;
targeted measures to be put in place.
If the Commission considers that the plan satisfies the assessment criteria, the EU country concerned should be allocated the maximum financial contribution, which is equal to, or higher than, or greater than, the total financial contribution itself.
the Commission may suspend or terminate the agreement without prejudice to Article 14(3) of the Financial Regulation.
Financing not linked to costs should apply at the level of payments from the Commission to EU countries as beneficiaries, irrespective of the reimbursement in any form of financial contributions from Member States to final recipients.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS DIRECTIVE APPLACE?
   
 
It applies from 1 January 2019.
BACKGROUND
The European Regional development fund is one of the main instruments of the ERDF. It was established under Regulation (EC) No 596/2013.
For more information, see:
‘Recovery & growth strategies’ on the EU's website.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Decision (EU, Euratom) 2019/852
1.1.2019
-
OJ L 136 of 1.1-2.2019, pp. 1-2
RELATED ACTS
Regulation (EC, EC) No 496/2014
1)
Regulations (EC), EC, EC and EFTA
2)
Commission Implementing Decision (EU), Euratom
3)
Council Implementing Regulation (Euratom) 2018/856
4)
Decisions (EU and Euratom).
5)
Report from the Economic and Financial Committee to the Council, the European Parliament, the Council and the European Economic and Social Committee on the application of Council Decision No 1371/2017/EU of 5 July 2017 on the fight against fraud to the Union's financial interests by means of criminal law (OJ C 202, 28.7.2018, pp 1-3) and (EU/EU) 2021/851
last update 14.02.2021



Summary 26:
EU-wide coordination of economic policies: recovery and resilience plans
EU–wide coordination on economic policies
SUMMARY OF:
Implementing Regulation (EU) 2021/241 — EU-wide cooperation and support plans
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to improve the coordination of EU countries’ economic policies in the event of a severe economic crisis.
It sets out the general objective and specific objectives of the instrument.
KEY POINTS
The objective of this instrument is to:
ensure that EU countries are able to prepare and implement economic policies that take into account the needs of the population and the economy;
contribute to the recovery of the economy and to the economic and social cohesion of the European Union (EU);
provide technical support to EU countries in case of a crisis;
support the development and implementation of recovery plans and recovery strategies.
The objectives are:
to:
prevent and reduce the impact of the crisis on the social and health-related consequences for EU countries as well as to mitigate its social and economic fallout.
To achieve these objectives, the EU countries should:
prepare and implement recovery plans;
prepart recovery strategies;
develop and implement support measures;
cooperate with other relevant international organisations;
coordinate their economic policies.
Support measures
EU countries must:
make the necessary financial resources available to the European Commission;
organise calls for technical support;
make use of the communication technologies;
the Commission should organise additional dedicated calls in response to specific to specific emerging needs;
needs;
implement special measures.
Special measures
The Commission may adopt special measures for a limited period. These special measures may be adopted at national, regional or local level, where appropriate also at national and regional level.
Cooperation and support
The instrument provides for:
a coordination and support plan for each EU country;
special measures adopted pursuant to Article 12(7);
the implementation of support measures at national or regional level; and
the communication activities carried out by the Commission.
Monitoring of implementation
The EU country concerned must submit a report to the Commission every 3 years on the implementation of the instruments. The report must include:
the number and duration of the special measures adopted;
a summary of the measures adopted and the results of the monitoring and evaluation carried out;
an evaluation of the implementation and the impact on the economy.
FROM WHEN DOES THE IMPLEMENTATION APPLY?
The regulation has applied since 1 January 2021.
BACKGROUND
The crisis in the euro area has had a significant impact on EU countries and has led to a deterioration in the quality of living standards of many of them. It has also had a negative impact on social cohesion.
For more information, see:
‘Recovery and Resilience Plans’ (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Economic crisis: a crisis in which a country’s economy is in a state of crisis and there is a significant increase in unemployment.
* Recovery and resilience plan: an action plan designed to help the economy recover.
ACT
Commission Implementing Regulation of 21 December 2011 establishing an instrument for the improvement and coordination of the economic policies of the Member States (EU-21/241) (OJ L 131, 21.12.2011, pp. 1-2)
last update 14.02.2021



Summary 27:
Railway passenger rights: uniform rules for the carriage of passengers and their luggage (recast)
Railway passengers rights: common rules for passenger rights
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 1371/2007 — uniform rules on passenger rights and carriage of goods and passengers on the railway
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to improve rail passenger services within the European Union (EU).
It sets out uniform rules to ensure that passengers are entitled to fair and timely compensation for the loss or damage caused to them by the railway.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to:
the carriage of persons and goods by rail;
the passenger’s right of access to the rail carriage;
access to the railway carriage and the right of carriage of their luggage.
It does not apply to the carriage by road of goods, goods or passengers.
Railways must:
ensure that:
passengers are informed of the conditions under which they can use the railway;
have the right to use the train;
are informed of any changes in the timetable;
make sure that the train is equipped with an adequate number of places for bicycles;
provide passengers with the necessary information about the train and the carriage conditions.
Passengers’ rights
In addition to the above, the regulation sets out rules on:
conditions under which railway undertakings are obliged to pay compensation for:
damage caused to passengers’ personal effects;
damage to their luggage;
loss or damage to their personal effects.
the amount of damages to the goods and personal effects that a passenger is entitled to receive;
measures to prevent or reduce the risk of damage to the personal effects of a passenger.
EU countries must ensure:
that:
railways have a system of complaint-handling procedures to deal with complaints;
there is a system for the exchange of information between the railway company and the passengers;
that passengers can lodge complaints with the competent national enforcement bodies.
Complaints must be handled in accordance with the rules laid down in the regulation.
The railway company must ensure that it:
provides passengers with information on the conditions of use of the railway system;
ensures that passengers have access to a complaint procedure;
has the means to lodge a complaint with the relevant national enforcement body;
makes available to passengers all the information they need to make a complaint, including the number and type of items they wish to complain about;
supports the implementation of the rules and measures set out in the annex to the regulation;
is responsible for the collection, processing and dissemination of information on complaints.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
The original regulation had to become law in the EU countries by 1 January 2008. It had to be amended by Regulation (EU) 2015/849 in order to incorporate the changes introduced in the new rules.
BACKGROUND
The European Union has adopted a number of measures to improve the quality of its rail system. These include:
rules on the carriage and use of goods;
rules to improve passenger information;
requests for railway companies to provide passengers with more information about their rights and obligations.
For more information, see:
‘Railways’ on the European Commission's website.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Council Regulation (Euratom) No 773/2007
1.1.2008
-
OJ L 127 of 1.1-2007
RELATED ACTS
Commission Implementing Decision 2014/749/EU of 25 November 2014 on the application of the European Parliament and of the Council Regulation on the introduction of uniform rules in the field of rail passenger rights (OJ C 202 of 26.11.2014)
Regulations (EC, Euratom) 2015-849/Euram) 2015 on the improvement of the quality and efficiency of the rail system and on the provision of passenger information on rail services and on passenger information and on ticketing, and repealing Council Regulation (EC), Euratom No 1372/2004 (O J L 347 of 27.12.2015).
Commission Decision (EU, Euram) 2016/852 of 27 November 2016 on the harmonisation of the laws and regulations applicable to the operation of railway infrastructure in the Union and repealing Commission Implementing Decisions (EUR) No 3111/2014 and (EU), Euram 2015/973/EUR and (EEC) 2015.
last update 04.01.2020



Summary 28:
EU external assistance for the Western Balkans and Turkey (IPA III) 2021-2027
EU external aid for the western Balkans and Turkish (IPAA III)
The European Union (EU) is providing financial assistance to the Western Balkan countries and Turkey for the period between 2021 and 2027.
ACT
Council Decision 2021/1059/EU of 7 September 2021 establishing a framework for planning and delivering external assistance under the IPA III programme.
SUMMARY
The IPA III is the third phase of the European Union’s external assistance programme. It aims to support the development of economic, social and territorial stability in the Western and Eastern Balkans (Western Balkans) and Turkey.
The programme is funded through the European Fund for Sustainable Development Plus (EFSD+) and the External Action Guarantee (EAG).
The beneficiaries of the programme are:
the Western Balkans (Serbia, Montenegro, Kosovo, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, Macedonia and Montenegro);
Turkey (Slovenia, Serbia, Kosovo and Macedonia);
the Republic of Macedonia (Sri Lanka);
Romania (Romania, Bulgaria, Greece, Hungary, Romania, Serbia and Turkey).
EU funding
The budget for the programme is €1.8 billion, which is divided into 3 tranches:
€1.5 billion for the first three budgetary commitments (1.3.2021, 1.4.2022 and 1.5.2027);
€2.2 billion from the EAG for the fourth tranche (2.1.2023 and 2.2.2025).
In addition, the European Investment Bank (EIB) and the World Bank (WB) will provide financial support.
In line with the principles of the United Nations Charter and international law, the beneficiaries of EU assistance must respect human rights’ rights and international humanitarian law. The European Commission will monitor this closely, including at local level.
Implementing measures and methods
EU actions under IPA III must be consistent with the principle of ‘do no harm’ and should comply with EU taxonomy to the extent possible, in particular to ensure the sustainability of investments.
EU assistance must be based on the following principles:
promotion of democracy and human rights;
respect for the rule of law;
equality of opportunity;
protection of minorities;
human rights and fundamental freedoms;
integration of women into society;
environmental protection;
sustainable development;
economic and social development.
Eligible beneficiaries
The following beneficiaries are eligible for EU funding:
The Western Balkans:
Serbia;
Bulgaria;
Greece;
Macedonian Republic;
Serbian Federation;
Yugoslavia; and
Turkey.
Funding
The first tranche of EU funding is allocated to the following beneficiaries:
Turkey:
1.7.2020;
Western Balkans;
Turkey;
Croatia:
2.8.2020;
Zagreb:
3.9.2020.
Rome:
4.9 2021.
Vietnam:
5.9 2023.
Zimbabwe:
6.10.2030.
Wyoming:
7.11.2031.
Last updated: 27.08.2015



Summary 29:
EU external assistance instruments
EU external aid instruments
SUMMARY OF:
Implementing Decision (EU) 2017/852 establishing a European External Action Guarantee
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DECISION?
   
 
It establishes a European Union external assistance instrument (EAGI).
The EAGI aims to contribute to a coordinated, holistic and structured approach to migration, maximising synergies and applying the necessary leverage.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The aim of the instrument is to:
contribute to the EU’s migration policy;
promote economic and social development in partner countries;
support the sustainable development of partner countries’ economies;
facilitate the exchange of information and best practice on migration and border management;
provide a coherent framework for cooperation between rapid response actions and geographic programmes.
Programming
The instrument is funded by the European Union (EU).
It is financed by the EU budget, which is the main source of funding for overseas countries and territories.
Eligible countries
The European Commission must establish a checklist of the eligibility criteria as set out in Article 31, Article 35(1 and (2) and (3) of the IPA III Regulation.
The Commission must assess and select proposals to be supported by the EOGI against this checklist, on the basis of the information provided by the eligible counterparts.
Projects must comply with the following criteria:
they must:
be based on the criteria set out by the Commission;
have a minimum budget of €500,000;
at least €250,000 for each project;
be implemented within the EU;
contain at least one project in each EU country and territories;
not be funded by any other EU financial instrument;
meet the criteria laid down in Regulation (EEC) No 596/2013 on the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF);
be financed from the budget of the European Investment Bank (EIB).
Programmes
The programme must be based on:
programming documents for regional programmes;
programmes for geographic programmes; and
programme documents for specific projects.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
The Instrument entered into force on 1 July 2017.
BACKGROUND
  The EAGA is one of a number of EU instruments designed to help developing countries. The other instruments are:
the European Investment Fund (EIF);
the Fund for Rural Development (FID); and
the EU Development Fund.
For more information, see:
External assistance instruments (European Commission).
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Implementing Decision 2009/973/EC of 27 June 2009 establishing a framework for the European External Assistance Instrument (EOGI) (OJ L 94, 1.7.2009, pp. 1-8)
RELATED DOCUMENTS
 			
Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 696/2014 of 27 May 2014 on the implementation of the Instrument for Regional Development (EIGF) and repealing Council Regulation (EC) no 596-2013 (OCT) No 796/13 (O J L 96, 31.5.2014, p. 1)
Council Decision 2014/856/EU of 26 May 2014 establishing the European Development Fund and repealing Decision (EURO) No 896-13 (EUGF) No 996/14 (O.J L 97, 30.6.2014).
See consolidated version.
last update 04.02.2021



Summary 30:
Whistleblower protection: EU rules on the protection of workers’ rights and the environment
WHEN DOES THIS DIRECTIVE APPLY?
It applies to workers who report breaches of EU law that are harmful to the public interest.
ACT
Directive 2014/24/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 November 2014 on the Protection of workers' rights and environmental protection in the field of public procurement.
SUMMARY
   
This directive aims to protect workers who have been victims of breaches of the EU’s public procurement rules.
It does not apply to:
employers’ organisations;
contractors’ bodies; or
the European Commission.
Scope
The directive applies to the following sectors:
the supply of products or the provision of services;
the transport of goods and services; and
the environmental protection of products and services.
EU countries may decide to exclude from the scope of the directive:
transport;
health and safety;
environmental protection;
marine transport;
information exchange;
public procurement;
social security.
Reporting
The report must be made available to the competent authorities in the EU country where it is received.
The competent authorities must:
ensure that the report is made available in a transparent, easily understandable and reliable manner;
make copies of the report;
notify the person who made the report and inform them of the reasons for their decision;
keep the report for at least 2 years;
use the information they have received;
2 years from the date of receipt;
report to the results of the investigation;
inform the European Commission of the decision-making process and the reasons that led to the decision to reject the report.
In addition, EU countries may exclude from protection the following-up of a report:
information that is already fully available in the public domain or unsubstantiated rumours and hearsay;
personal conflicts between the reporting person and the employer;
confidentiality of the information;
disclosure of the identity of the person concerned;
any other information that is confidential or hearsay.
References
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Regulation (EU) No 1071/2009
-
OJ L 329 of 10.11.2009
Last updated: 27.07.2009



Summary 31:
European integrated border management agency (EUROSUR)
European integrated Border Management Agency (EUBER)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) 2018/1725 establishing the European Union Border and Coast Guard Agency
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes the European Agency for the Protection of the Union’s (EurosUR) external borders.
It sets out the tasks and responsibilities of the agency.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The agency is responsible for the protection of the external borders of the EU and the Schengen area. It is based in Luxembourg and has its seat in Luxembourg.
Its tasks include:
exchanging information with other EU countries or non-EU countries at external borders;
monitoring and analysing migration flows;
facilitating the exchange of information with the law enforcement authorities of the Member States, Europol or Eurojust;
operating the FADO system;
providing technical assistance to the Rapid Response Pool (RRP Pool) and the Rapid Reaction Mechanism (RPM);
assisting the competent bodies of EU countries in border management;
ensuring that EU countries’ competent bodies carry out forced-return monitoring activities.
EU countries contribute to the RRP Pool and the rapid reaction pool.
The RPM Pool consists of:
a pool of fundamental rights monitors from competent bodies from EU countries who carry out Forced-Return Monitoring activities;
a standing corps of technical crews that are part of the standing corps;
an operational staff deployed from the EU countries.
A rapid response pool consisting of operational staff from the European Defence Agency (EDA).
The Rapid Response Mechanism consists of a rapid response team composed of personnel from each EU country. The RPM is composed of a standing corps and a rapid reaction team.
RPM teams are:
based in Luxembourg;
cooperated with the competent national border management bodies of the participating EU countries;
maintained by the competent body of each participating EU country;
operated by the technical crews based in each participating country.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMISSION
The regulation applies from 1 January 2019.
BACKGROUND
The European Agency was set up following the creation of the European Integrated Border Management Network (EATMN) in 2014.
For more information, see:
External borders (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Forced-return monitors: people who are forced to return to their country of origin.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EU, Eurosur) 2019/1825 of 21 December 2018 establishing the Agency for Protection of European Union‘s external borders’.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member State
Official Journal
Commission Regulation (EC) No 596/2014
1.1.2019
-
OJ L 165 of 21.12.2014
RELATED DOCUMENTS
Commission Implementing Decision 2014/852/EU of 27 November 2014 on the establishment of a Rapid Reaction Pool and establishing a Rapid reaction Mechanism for the European External Borders (EU/2016/1624) (Official Journal L 94 of 28.11.2014)
Commission Decision 2014-852-EU of 28 November 2014 establishing a rapid-response team for the implementation of Directive 2014/9/EU on the rapid response mechanism for the exercise of authority in the field of border management.
Commission Delegated Regulation of 27 October 2014 establishing the Rapid-Response Mechanism and establishing the RPM.
last update 04.02.2020



Summary 32:
Information and communications technology (ICT) cybersecurity: European Network of Information Security Assurance Institutions (ENISA) (European cybersecurity certification body)
Information and communication technology: European network of information security Assurance Institutes (ENCI)*
SUMMARY OF:
Directive (EU) 2016/1148 establishing a network of cybersecurity certification bodies for information and communication technologies (ICTs)
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DIRECTIVE?
It establishes the network of national cybersecurity certification authorities (NICs) known as ENISA.
It sets up the network to:
ensure that cybersecurity certification schemes and certificates for ICT products, ICT services and ICT processes meet the requirements set out in the EU’s cybersecurity legislation;
provide information on cybersecurity incident response teams network (CSIRTs network) and the cybersecurity certification authority (ICCAs);
ensuring that cybersecurity incidents are quickly and effectively dealt with.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The directive applies to all products and services covered by the EU cybersecurity legislation, including:
products and services which are:
connected to the internet;
computers and mobile phones;
internet-based services;
information and communication networks;
mobile applications;
computer security incident response systems.
The legislation does not apply to: products, services and processes which are not connected to the Internet;
services that are not designed and built on the internet.
Ensuring interoperability between the EU and non-EU countries
EU countries must ensure that:
there is a high level of interoperability and interoperability of their cybersecurity certification systems;
there are interoperability with other EU countries’ cybersecurity legislation.
There is a clear distinction between cybersecurity* and cybersecurity* standards, such as those of the European Union (EU).
There are 2 types of cybersecurity standards:
Cybersecurity standards: cybersecurity standards for cybersecurity* products;
cybersecurity certification* for cybersecurity services.
ENISA is responsible for:
developing and maintaining its expertise on cybersecurity certification with a view to supporting the EU policy in that area;
advising EU countries and the private sector on cybersecurity;
assisting the European Commission and the EU countries with which the EU has concluded agreements on cybersecurity.
Role of ENISA
The organisation is managed by a management board and an advisory group. The Executive Director is appointed by the Commission and is independent of the management board. The board meets at least once every 3 months. The executive director is assisted by a committee. It is composed of:
seconded national experts and other staff;
members of the Management Board;
advisory group members;
third-party experts;
an advisory group comprising experts from the private and public sectors.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS DIRECTIVE APPLY?
Decision No 652/2016/EU has applied since 1 January 2016.
BACKGROUND
   
 
The cybersecurity legislation is part of the EU strategy to modernise and modernise the EU in the field of information and communications technologies.
For more information, see:
‘Information and Communications Technology: cybersecurity’ on the ENISA website.
MAIN DOCUMENT
 			  	 	
Council Directive (EU), Euratom, Euratom and the European Parliament of 21 December 2016 establishing a Network of cybersecurity Certification Authorities for Information and Communications Technologies (Ensia) (OJ L 94, 28.1.2016, pp. 1-2)
Successive amendments to Directive (Euratom, Euratom and Euratom have been incorporated into the original document. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
                                   
                                   
  The European Commission’S communication on the implementation of Directive (EC) No 596/2014 on cybersecurity (COM(2014) 696) on the European Network for Information & Communications Technology (ENIS) (COM) 697) (Official Journal C 696).
Communication from the Commission to the Council, the Parliament, the European Economic and Social Committee, the Committee of the Regions and the Committee on the Protection of the Social Security of the Member States: Implementing Decision No 676/2014/EU on the establishment of the Network of Cybersecurity Assurance Authorities for the Information and Communication Technologies (ENCIT) and repealing Directive 2004/18/EC.
last update 04.02.2016



Summary 33:
EU countries’ gross national income (GNI)
EU countries' gross national incomes
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 549/2013 establishing a European system of national income
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out the rules for the transmission of data to the European Commission (Eurostat) on the European System of Gross National Income*.
KEY POINTS
The regulation sets out rules for:
the transmission of GNI aggregates and their components to Eurostat;
the verification of the quality of the GNI data and of the EU’s statistical system of accounts (ESA 2010);
the exchange of data between Eurostat and national statistical authorities of other EU countries.
It establishes a system of statistical confidentiality for the data transmitted by Eurostat to the statistical office of the European Economic and Social Committee (ESC).
The European system is based on the gross national indicators (GNIs) and is designed to be comparable, reliable and exhaustive.
The Commission must ensure that the data are reliable, exhaustive and comparable.
Eurostat is responsible for the collection and transmission of the data. It must:
carry out GNI information visits in order to verify the quality, reliability and exhaustiveness of the aggregates, their components and the statistical system;
keep an inventory of the collected data;
provide the ESSC with an inventory guide to ensure that it complies with ESA 2010;
assist the Commission in the preparation of delegated acts;
ensure that ESA 2010 is correctly implemented.
FROM WHEN DOES APPLY
   
The GNI regulation applies from 1 January 2014.
1 January 2015.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
1.1.2015
-
Expiry
1 year
2.2.2016
3.3.2017
4.4.2018
5.5.2019
6.2020
7.2021.2022
8.2023
9.2025
10.2026
11.2027
12.2028
13.2031.2032.
This regulation repeals Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1287/2003.
Amending act(s)
1) The European Statistical System Committee (ESSC) replaces the European Statistics Office (ESO).
2) Euratom establishes a formal expert group to assist the Commission.
3) ESA 2010 implementation
4) ESA 2020 implementation
5) ESA 2021 implementation
6) ESA 2022 implementation
7) ESA 2023 implementation
8) ESA 2024 implementation
9) ESA 2025 implementation
10) ESA 2030 implementation
11) ESA 2050 implementation
12) ESA 2100 implementation
13) ESA2025 implementation

WHAT DOES THE RECOMMENDATION DO?
The Regulation establishes the rules on the transmission of data subject to statistical confidentiality to the Statistical Office.
KEY TERMS
* Gross national income: a measure of the gross domestic product (GDP) of an EU country. It is the sum of final uses of goods and services by resident institutional units (final consumption and gross capital formation) plus exports and minus imports of goods or services.
* GNI: an annual GNI at market prices at the level of gross domestic income.
ACT
Council Regulation (Euratom) 2014/335/EU of 21 December 2014 establishing a system for the calculation of the Gross national incomes of Member States (OJ L 87, 31.12.2014, pp. 1-3)
RELATED ACTS
Council Decision 2014/332/EU on the revision of the system of gross national statistics (ESA) (Official Journal L 96, 29.3-30.2014)
Council Decision (EC) No 322/97 on Community Statistics, Council Decision 89/382/EEC establishing a Committee on the Statistical Programmes of the Eastern European Communities and Council Decisions 89/349/EURatom and 89/391/EC establishing the European Social and Statistical Committee (Official J L 87 of 31.3.-30.2003)
last update 04.02.2020



Summary 34:
EU type-approval of vehicles, systems, components and separate technical units
EU type of approval
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 168/2013 on the granting and placing on the European Union market of vehicles and systems, systems and components based on the same type as those of the United Kingdom
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out the rules for the granting of EU type–approval* of vehicles*, systems and component* systems* based on a type approved by the EU’s single market, the EU.
It establishes special rules to ensure that EU type‑approval rules are applied to vehicles* and systems*, components*, separate technical* units* that have been previously approved in the UK.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to:
vehicles and systems* of the type covered by EU type‐approval;
separate technical units based on that type;
systems, components or separate technical unit based on other types and already placed on the EU market;
vehicle, systems or separate parts of a vehicle that have previously been approved by a single EU authority.
Manufacturers must apply to the European Commission for EU type approval.
The Commission decides on the basis of a proposal submitted by the manufacturer.
If the Commission accepts the proposal, the vehicle, system or component manufacturer must submit a type‐certificate to the competent authority of the EU country of origin. The type-certificate must contain the following information:
the type of vehicle;
the number of vehicles;
a description of the vehicle and the type of the system or components;
type of the component;
number of components; and
the total number of parts of the components.
Where the Commission considers that a vehicle or system, system, component or separate part does not comply with the requirements of the regulation, it may issue a type‑certificate that states that the vehicle or component does not conform with the regulation.
When the Commission decides that the type is no longer conforms with the regulations of the Member States, it must issue the type‐conditions for its withdrawal from the EU, including:
a type‐notification of invalidity;
recall, repair and maintenance information and in‐in-service conformity checks;
instructions for the maintenance of the vehicles and components concerned;
requests for information on the safety and environmental performance of the systems or components concerned.
In addition, the Commission must:
take over the responsibilities of the national authority that is to approve types previously approved for use in the EU;
make available on the market, registration, sale or entry into service of end-of series vehicles conforming to a type whose UK type‐authorisation has become invalid before the date on which EU type-approved legislation ceases to apply to and in the Member State where it was granted;
ensure that the manufacturer complies with the conditions laid down in the regulation;
apply for a type–certificate for the same vehicle or components that are already on the Union market.
Application for a Union type‐permanent type‐conformity mark
The manufacturer must apply for the type‑conditions set out in this regulation. The manufacturer must provide the Commission with:
information on the type–conditions of use, including the number and type of components, the type-number of parts and the number of separate parts, and the total number and number of components of the separate parts and separate parts;
information about the number, type, number and types of parts, components, separate parts or separate components, including a description of each component and of the parts and components, as well as of the different types of systems and separate units;
specifications for the safety, environmental performance and in-service compliance of the products and components and the information about the components and components. The Commission must also provide the manufacturer with information on:
safety and environmental compliance;
environmental performance;
compliance with the safety requirements;
safety requirements for the components, parts, separate components and subsystems;
technical requirements for systems, separate technicalunits;
conditions relating to the maintenance and in–service conformity check.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULATIONS APPLY?
The Regulation applies from 30 March 2019.
BACKGROUND
The EU is a single market. It is governed by the Treaty on European Union (TEU) and its annexes.
For more information, see:
‘EU type’ on Eurostat’.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 167/2013 of 30 March 2013 laying down the conditions for granting the Union type–performance mark for certain types of vehicles (OJ L 60, 2.3.2013, pp. 1-2)
Successive amendments to Regulation (U.S.A) No 166/2013 have been incorporated into the



Summary 35:
Europol: rules on the processing of personal data and the exchange of information with non-EU countries and international organisations (Decision 2009/371/JHA on the establishment of a European Police Office (Europol Convention)
Europol : rules on data processing and the sharing of information between the EU’s law enforcement agencies
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001 — rules on Europol
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out rules on how the European Union (EU) law enforcement agency Europol:
processes and exchanges personal data;
exchanges and exchanges information with other EU bodies, authorities of third countries, international organisations and non-governmental organisations (NGOs) to the extent necessary for the performance of its tasks.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to all EU countries’ national police offices and Europol itself.
It does not apply to the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF).
It applies to:
national police offices in the EU countries;
international police organisations;
non-EU law enforcement bodies;
national judicial authorities;
law enforcement agencies and judicial authorities.
The purpose of the regulation is to ensure that:
personal data are processed only for the purpose of preventing, investigating and prosecuting crime;
the processing of information is carried out in accordance with the lawfulness of the law;
data subjects have the right to have their personal data processed and stored in a secure and confidential manner;
to have access to all Europol premises and to all the data processed.
EU countries must ensure that personal data are stored and processed only in a way that is necessary for Europol to fulfil its tasks and that is in line with their national law.
Data protection rules
The European Union has a Data Protection Officer (DPO) responsible for protecting personal data. The EPO is appointed by the European Parliament and the Council of the EU and is assisted by the Management Board.
Duties of the EPO
The EPO:
is responsible for:
collecting, processing, storing, analysing and sharing information;
ensuring the confidentiality and security of the personal data it processes;
monitoring and ensuring proper data integrity and security;
assisting Europol in its work;
preparing and disseminating reports;
providing technical and organisational measures to protect personal data against accidental or unlawful destruction, accidental loss or unauthorised disclosure, alteration and access or any other form of processing.
Evaluation of data protection
EDPOs must:
ensure that the data they process are protected;
use the information they collect for the purposes of preventing and investigating crime, detecting and investigating serious crime, preventing and prosecuting serious crime and preventing crime.
They must ensure the protection of the confidentiality, security and integrity of the data that they process, including:
identifying the data subjects;
protecting personal data from accidental destruction or accidental loss;
notifying the identity of any person who has been the subject of a personal data query;
keeping a record of all personal data that Europol has processed and storing.
In addition, Europol must ensure:
the confidentiality and confidentiality of the information it has processed, stored and exchanged;
that personal data is protected against accidental destruction, accident or loss; and
the protection of data against alteration, deletion, combination or erasure.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULATIONS APPLY?
Decision 2010/852/EU has applied since 1 January 2010.
BACKGROUND
   
 
The Europol Convention is based on Article K.3.3 of the Treaty on European Union, which establishes a European police office.
For more information, see:
‘Europol’ on the European Commission's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Personal data: personal data: any personal data, such as names, addresses, dates of birth, gender, place of residence, date of death, contact details and contact details of the person concerned.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Decision 2010/884/EU of 21 December 2010 establishing the rules of procedure for the establishment and functioning of Europol (OJ L 347, 21.12.2010, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Decision 2010-884/eu have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 04.02.2016



Summary 36:
SURE: temporary support to mitigate unemployment risks in an emergency (SURE) following the COVID-19 outbreak (SURV)
SURVEY: short-term unemployment support
Short-term employment support
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2018/1046 establishing a European instrument for temporary support for short-time work
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes the European Union’s (EU) ‘SURE’, a temporary employment support instrument.
It aims to help EU countries experiencing difficulties or serious threats to their economic and social stability due to a crisis in the labour market caused by an outbreak of the CoVID‐19 virus.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to:
EU countries that are experiencing serious difficulties or are seriously threatened with severe difficulties caused by exceptional occurrences beyond its control.
The aim of the SURE is to provide temporary, unconditional, unconditional and on-demand financial assistance to EU countries in the event of a COVID‑19 outbreak.
SURE can be used for:
short-term work schemes or similar measures;
health-related measures that may be financed by the European Commission;
social protection schemes for the most vulnerable groups of people;
emergency measures to mitigate the impact of COVID–19 on the labour markets;
temporary unemployment.
Beneficiaries
The European Commission must inform the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the European Central Bank of the measures it intends to finance under the instrument. The Commission must submit a report to the Council every 2 years on the implementation of the instrument, including the number and duration of the calls on guarantees and the amount of loans granted.
FROM WHEN DOES IT APPLY?
The SURE has applied since 8 May 2020.
BACKGROUND
The COVID outbreak is one of the most severe in the history of the EU and has led to a significant increase in the number of unemployed people in the EU.
For more information, see:
‘Short-temporary employment support’ on the Commission's website.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EU/Euratom) No 1046/2018 of 8 May 2018 on the establishment of a European Instrument for temporary employment assistance for short‐term work
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Decision No 1052/2018/EU
8.5.2018
-
OJ L 165 of 8.5-20.2018.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
Council Decision No 1053/2014/EU of 9 March 2014 on the creation of a temporary unemployment support instrument for short‑term work (SURES) (OJ C 202 of 9.3.2014).
Last updated: 27.07.2014



Summary 37:
Resolution of credit institutions and credit institutions: financial stability and financial soundness
Resolving credit institutions
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 — resolution and resolution tools
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to ensure that credit institutions, such as Credit Clearing Companies (CCPs), are able to be wound down and their assets, rights, obligations and liabilities transferred to another entity or, in the application of a resolution tool, from a bridge CCP to a purchaser.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to all credit institutions in the European Union (EU). It does not apply to credit institutions operating in non-EU countries.
The resolution authority must ensure that:
the resolution authority:
recognises the CCP’s losses;
ensures a definitive valuation of the CCP in its books;
provides a decision to write back creditors’ claims or to increase the value of the consideration paid, in accordance with the terms of the resolution plan;
informs creditors of any decision to increase or write back the value or increase the amount of the settlement.
It must:
ensure that the resolution authority has the necessary financial resources and expertise to carry out its tasks;
take into account the needs of the creditors;
assess the recovery plans for the CCP and its assets and liabilities;
implement a recovery plan.
Resolution authorities must ensure the following:
have the necessary resources to:
collect and manage all the assets, liabilities and assets of a credit institution;
have sufficient to cover their costs;
make a sufficient number of claims and liabilities to cover the costs of their recovery plans;
be able to pay out a ‘no creditor worse off’ payment.
A resolution authority may, before 11 February 2021, apply to its competent authority for permission to avail itself of transitional arrangements.
Transitional arrangements may be granted to a CCP or a trading venue for a period of up to 2 years, or up to a maximum of 2 years.
Creditors must be compensated for any losses they suffer as a result of the failure of a CCP to comply with its recovery plans. They must also receive compensation from the resolution authorities. This compensation should be deducted from any entitlement to a no creditor better off payment. The resolution authority is responsible for:
paying all the claims and obligations of creditors, including:
recourse payments;
collecting and remunerating claims;
recovering assets;
keeping records of transactions;
making payments to creditors.
In addition, the regulation provides for the protection of counterparties in the event of partial transfers:
where a resolution authority transfers some but not all of the assets or rights of the credit institution under resolution to another institution or, where it transfers assets, obligations or liabilities of a CC under resolution, from another entity to another or from a purchaser;
where it exercises the powers referred to in point (g) of Article 49(1) of Directive 2014/59/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council (see summary);
where the CCP is subject to a suspension of the clearing obligation.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULATE APPLY?
 
   
It has applied since 11 February 2012.
BACKGROUND
The European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) has adopted a resolution framework for credit institutions. It aims to improve the stability of the financial system and to ensure the sound functioning of credit markets in the EU.
For more information, see:
Credit institutions (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Credit institutions: credit institutions are credit institutions that provide services across national borders to a broad range of financial and other institutions across the EU, including banks, insurance companies, investment firms, investment management firms and other financial institutions.
* Trading venues: trading venues that provide trading services to the market in financial derivatives. They provide services in the form of trading venues. They may be regulated by the competent authorities of the EU Member States or by the European Central Bank (ECB).
* Rastructures: a structure or structure consisting of a centralised trading venue or a rastructure, which provides trading venues for the period specified by the CCP.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Commission Implementing Decision 2012/852/EU
11.2.2012
-
OJ L 136 of 11.2-11.2012.
RELATED ACTS
Regulating (EU, Euratom) No 596/2013 on the resolution of credit facilities and credit facilities (OJ C 202 of 11 January 2013).
Regulatory (EU), Euratom No 649/2012 on the clearing of credit derivatives and on the settlement of credit default swap transactions (OTC derivatives).
Directive 2014/60/EU on



Summary 38:
European Year for the European Railways (2014-2020)
European year for the rail
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 642/2014 on the European Year for Railways
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to promote rail as a sustainable, innovative, interconnected and intermodal, safe and affordable mode of transport, in particular by highlighting the role of rail:
as a game changer helping to achieve the EU’s climate neutrality objective by 2050;
as the pillar of an efficient logistic network, capable of guaranteeing essential services, even during unexpected crises.
KEY POINTS
The European Year 2014-2020 is the fourth railway year under the European Green Deal. It is the first year where the rules agreed under the Fourth Railway Package will be implemented throughout the EU, namely on the opening of the market of domestic passenger services, on reducing costs and administrative burden for railway undertakings operating across the EU and on providing the European Union Agency for Railway Safety (ERA) with additional tasks that aim to lower technical barriers.
The objectives of the year are to:
promote rail as:
a sustainable and innovative, innovative and interconnected transport option;
safe and affordable;
an efficient and cost-effective means of transport;
a high-speed, high-capacity and high-quality rail network capable of meeting the needs of the European economy.
To achieve these objectives, the EU countries must:
open the market for passenger services;
provide the European railway companies with the necessary financial resources;
reduce costs for railway companies;
ensure a high level of safety and environmental protection.
In addition, the European Commission will organise a number of events to promote the European rail year. These events will take place at EU and national level.
International cooperation
The Commission will, where necessary, cooperate with competent international organisations, while ensuring the visibility of the EU's participation. The Commission will also hold meetings with the European Parliament, the Council and the European Economic and Social Committee, as well as with the International Transport Workers’ Federation (ITF) and the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe (UNECA).
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULTRY?
The regulation applies from 1 January 2014.
BACKGROUND
The EU is committed to achieving a true single European railway area by 2020. This is achieved by:
establishing a single European rail area;
developing a high speed rail network;
improving the efficiency of the rail sector;
strengthening cooperation between EU countries.
For more information, see:
European rail year (European Commission).
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 608/2014 of 16 June 2014 establishing the Shift2Rail Joint Undertaking (OJ L 177, 17.6.2014, pp. 1-2)
RELATED DOCUMENTS
Council Directive 2012/34/EU of 27 December 2012 establishing the European Railway Area (REA) (Official Journal L 177 of 27.12.2012)
Directive 2012/33/EU establishing the Single European railway Area (Official JHA) (Directive 2013/13/EU on the implementation of the fourth European railway package (OfficialJHA) and repealing Directive 2009/8/EC) (Council Directive 2013/9/EC).
last update 04.02.2020



Summary 39:
European Social Development Fund (ESDC): rules on the organisation, organisation and financing of the European social development sector
European social development fund (ESD)
SUMMARY OF:
Council Decision 2013/189/CFSP establishing the European Social Development fund
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DECISION?
It establishes the European Society for the Development of Social and Development Fund, a European Union (EU) social development body.
It sets out the rules and structure of the ESDC.
KEY POINTS
The ESDC is the EU’s social and development fund. It is funded by the EU budget and is responsible for:
research and development (R&D) activities;
training and education (education and training);
research in the field of social policy;
research on social and economic development (SDPs);
development of social and environmental policy.
The EU budget covers:
programmes for research and development;
programme for training and education;
investment in research and other projects in the area of CFSP;
financial rules for the financing of such expenditure;
budgetary rules for expenditure.
Funding
The budget is allocated by the European Parliament and the Council of the EU. It may be increased or reduced depending on the number of projects it supports.
Eligible projects
EU countries may apply for grants from the European Research Council (ERC) and the European Commission. The ESDC may also apply for funding from international organisations, such as the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) or the World Health and Human Development Fund.
International organisations and other relevant actors may also participate in projects funded by ESDC, as long-term projects.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS DECISION APPLACE APPLY?
The decision applies from 23 June 2013.
BACKGROUND
   
This decision is part of a series of decisions on the European system of social development.
For more information, see:
European Society for Social Development (European Commission).
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Joint Action (CFSP) 2014/189 of 23 June 2014 on the establishment, organisation, structure and funding of the ESDF (OJ L 136, 23.6.2014, pp. 1-2)
RELATED DOCUMENTS
 
 Â  Â
  барска (European Parliament and Council) Joint Action 2014/919/EU of 23 May 2014 on:
the establishment of a European social security fund and the structure of its budget;
the structure of ESDC;
rules of procedure of the Board and each of its configurations.
last update 14.02.2016



Summary 40:
Reused water: water quality class
Reclaimed water: reused water class
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 on the reuse of reclaimed water
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to improve the management of the quality of water in the European Union (EU).
It sets out rules for the management and monitoring of the re-use of water.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to all water bodies in the EU. It does not apply to water bodies used for the abstraction of water intended for human consumption.
It applies to:
reclamation facilities;
recovery ponds and aquaculture ponds;
water treatment plants;
seawater treatment plants.
Risk management
EU countries must draw up a water reuse risk management plan (WRMP) for each of their water bodies.
The WRMP must include:
a description of the risks to the environment and human or animal health;
information and awareness-raising campaigns on the risks of water reuse;
measures to be taken to protect human and animal health and the environment;
preventing the contamination of water bodies;
monitoring and reporting on the results of the water reuse process.
Requirements for the drawing up of the WRP and the monitoring and reporting of the results
The plan must be drawn up by the water body operator or the authority responsible for the production and supply of the reclaimed water. The plan must contain:
the following information:
information on the risk to the water poses;
a list of sources and methods of water treatment;
the number of sources of water and methods used;
how the water is treated and treated;
methods of treatment and storage
the types of water used for water treatment.
If the plan does not contain all the information required, the plan may be amended by Regulation (EC) No 552/2014.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
From 1 January 2012.
BACKGROUND
The European Commission has adopted a water management action plan for the EU’s water resources.
For more information, see:
‘Water management’ on the European Commission's website.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Directive 2003/4/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 December 2003 on the protection of the environment, water and energy (see summary)
REACHING FORWARD
   
 
Regulations (EC, Euratom) No 496/2004 and (EC), Euratom and (Euratom) have been amended several times, most recently by Directive 2014/24/EU on the management, monitoring and evaluation of the environmental impact of the use of water, energy and waste water. These amendments have been incorporated in the original text.
RELATED ACTS
 			
Commission Implementing Decision 2014/23/EU of 27 December 2014 on the implementation of Regulation (EU, Euram) No 652/2013 on the water management of water (see consolidated version) (OJ L 347, 28.12.2014, pp. 1-8)
Commission Regulation (EURAM) No 796/2014 of 27 November 2014 on water management (see annexed version).
last update 04.01.2016



Summary 41:
EU blue card for non-EU nationals — mobility and residence
European blue card — mobility AND residence
SUMMARY OF:
Directive (EU) 2016/801 on the granting of an EU blue card
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DIRECTIVE?
It aims to facilitate the movement of third-country nationals (known as EU blue cards) between EU countries.
It sets out the conditions and procedures for granting and renewing these cards.
KEY POINTS
The directive applies to:
third-country national who apply to reside in a Member State for the purpose of highly qualified employment within the meaning of Directive 2021/1883 of the European Parliament and of the Council (see summary);
those who apply for an initial or renewal of a blue card in order to reside and work there under the EU Blue Card on the basis of a work contract or binding job offer;
those applying for residence in the second EU country for family members.
EU blue cards are valid for a period of 5 years. The duration of this period may be extended to 10 years if the holder is a resident of the EU country concerned.
The holder of a card may be granted residence in another EU country if:
the conditions for admission are fulfilled;
the person concerned is considered to pose a threat to public policy, public security or public health; or
the employer’s business was established or operates for the main purpose of facilitating the entry of third‑country nationals.
Member States must:
ensure that the person concerned:
has a valid residence permit;
has the necessary documents;
is not the subject to fraudulently acquired, falsified or tampered with;
provides proof that the documents presented are authentic;
does not comply with the conditions laid down in Article 5 of the directive.
An application must be submitted to a contact point in the Member State concerned within 30 days of the date of submission of the application. The contact point must be located in the same Member State as the contact point for the first Member State.
A Member State may reject an application for an EU card if it is found that:
a Member State considers that the application is not complied with or that the document presented has been falsified;
a third party has been involved in a fraud or falsified act;
there is reason to believe that the third party is involved in organised crime, terrorism or a serious threat to the public policy or security of another Member State;
it is considered that a third party poses a threat or poses a risk to public security, public health or public order.
In addition, Member States must ensure that the information provided in the application, such as the name, address, date of birth, nationality and place of residence of the applicant, is accurate and that it is accompanied by the necessary documentation. The information must be provided in a language easily understood by the contact points. Member States may also require the information to be accompanied by a photograph of the holder of the card and a copy of the relevant documents.
If the Member States consider that an application has not been complied with, they may refuse to grant the card if the applicant:
is an individual who poses a security risk,
has committed a serious offence,
is considered to be involved in fraud or has committed a crime,
the third party concerned is an individual involved in terrorism,
poses a threat of serious crime, or
has engaged in a serious breach of public policy.
Residence in a second Member State
The Member State must grant the holder a residence permit or residence permit for the duration of the 5-year period defined in this directive. The residence permit may be renewed for a maximum of 3 years.
Movement within the EU
An EU blue-card holder may move to a Member States’ territory for the purposes of:
working or studying;
studying;
being a self-employed person;
living or working in the country concerned;
exercising the right of mobility to other Member States;
visiting family members;
traveling to the country of origin of a third country.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS DIRECTIVE APPLY?

It has applied since 1 July 2016.
BACKGROUND
The EU blue code was first introduced in 2004. It has been amended several times, most recently in 2016. The most recent amendment was adopted in 2018.
For more information, see:
‘The EU Blue Code’ on the European Commission's website.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Directive (EU, Euratom) 2016 /801 of 27 June 2016 on the grant of an European blue card (OJ L 347, 28.6.2016, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Directive (Euratom) No 802/2014 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
Council Regulation (EU), Eur



Summary 42:
European Migration Fund
European migration fund
SUMMigration Fund
The European Migration Fund (EMF) is a European Union (EU) instrument designed to support EU countries’ efforts to tackle the migration crisis. Its main objective is to:
contribute to the sustainable development of the EU’s external borders;
provide financial support for the implementation of the common migration policy;
support the development of a comprehensive, pragmatic and resolute approach to migration.
ACT
Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2021/1060 of 14 March 2018 establishing the European Migration Facility.
RELATED ACTS
Regulation (EC) No 596/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2013 establishing the common border management system for the EU.
Commission Implementing Decision 2014/852/EU establishing the Common Border Management System for the European Union.
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATIONS?
The EMF sets out the specific objectives of the EMF:
to:
ensure that EU countries have the capacity to manage the external borders effectively and efficiently;
to contribute to the prevention and control of irregular migration;
promote sustainable development in the field of migration; and
to support the integration of migrants and asylum seekers into the labour market.
KEY POINTS
EU countries must ensure that:
the EMF has a budget of at least €2.5 billion for the period 2014-2020;
all EU countries are eligible for EMF funding;
at least €1 billion of that amount must come from the EU budget.
as well as from non-EU countries.
The EU budget must be used for the benefit of the Member State concerned.
Member States must report on the use and the distribution of EMF resources to the European Commission, as well as on the measures they have implemented.
Implementing decisions must be based on measurable indicators as a basis for evaluating the effects of the Fund on the ground. These indicators include:
number of people admitted through humanitarian admission;
the number of families placed in alternatives to detention;
total number of people transferred from one Member State to another.
In addition, Member States must:
report to the Commission on the number of persons and families who have been admitted to the EU;
report on the types of intervention they have carried out;
monitor and report the results of the actions they have taken;
assess the impact of their actions on the migration situation in the Member States;
draw up a report every 3 years on the progress made by Member States and on the results they have achieved.
Each year, the Commission must submit a report to the Council on the implementation and results of its EMF. The report must include a summary of the measures that have been implemented and the indicators that have not been implemented. It must also include a description of the results achieved and the measures still to be implemented. The Commission is responsible for:
monitoring the implementation;
reporting on the quality of the information it receives;
keeping a record of the data it has received;
identifying the number and types of beneficiaries of international protection;
checking that the measures are being implemented;
examining the number, types and categories of persons who have benefited from international protection.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULATION APPLY?
It has applied since 15 March 2018.
BACKGROUND
The migration crisis is one of the main challenges facing the EU and the EU is committed to addressing it. The EMF was established in 2003. It is the main instrument of the Common Migration Fund.
For more information, see:
European Migration Facility (European Commission).
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Resolution of 27 September 2017 on the continuation of the Migration Fund [Official Journal C 202 of 27.9.2017].
RELATED DOCUMENTS
Council Implementing Decisions 2014/884/EU and 2014/946/EU of 27 March 2014 on the common Border Management system for Europe (Official Journal L 347 of 28.3.2014).
Council implementing Decision (EU), Euratom of 26 March 2014 establishing the Community Border Management Systems for Europe and repealing Council Regulation (Euratom) No 182/2011 (OJ L 347, 29.4.2014, pp. 1-2)
Commission implementing Decision 2014-852 of 27 February 2014 establishing a Common Border Migration System for Europe, repealing Council Decision 2013/945/EU (Official journal L 347)
last update 04.02.2020



Summary 43:
Flexible working arrangements for mothers and fathers who take maternity and parental leave (Parental leave directive)
Facilitating flexible working arrangements between men and women who have a child and who have taken parental leave: Directive (EU) 2020/852
Facilitation of flexible working opportunities for mothers, fathers and other workers who have had a child
Families should be able to request flexible working* arrangements between them and their employers.
ACT
Council Directive (EEC) No 852/2010 of 2 August 2010 on the flexibility of working arrangements in the context of parental leave.
SUMMARY
WHAT DOES THIS DIRECTIVE DO?
It aims to improve the quality of working conditions for women and men in the labour market by:
improving the flexibility and effectiveness of working hours;
promoting equal treatment of women, men and men;
encouraging the reintegration of mothers in labour market after they have taken a period of maternity and/or parental leave;
ensuring that women have access to flexible working conditions.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The directive applies to all workers in the European Union (EU). It does not apply to:
part-time workers;
temporary workers; or
contractual workers.
The period of leave is linked to the age of the child.
It does not cover:
the duration of maternity or parental leave,
the number of weeks of leave or the duration of the leave, or
the length of leave, and
the nature of the flexible working arrangement.
Employers may postpone parental leave if they consider that it would seriously disrupt the good functioning of the employer’s’ organisation or would seriously affect the organisation of the organisation.
EU countries may establish the conditions under which an employer is allowed to postpone the granting parental leave for a reasonable period of time on the grounds that the taking of the parental leave at the time requested would seriously interfere with the organisation's good functioning.
Workers who exercise their right to take leave or to request flexibility working arrangements as provided for in this directive should enjoy protection from dismissal and any preparatory steps for a possible dismissal on grounds that they have applied for, or have taken, such leave or that they exercised their right of request such flexibility.
In addition, EU countries must ensure that:
employers do not dismiss workers who are entitled to take parental leave or request flexible work arrangements on grounds of their gender;
they do not discriminate between men or women based on the gender of the person concerned;
the employer is not obliged to inform the worker of the reasons for postponing parental leave in writing.
FROM WHEN DOES THE DIRECTIVE APPLY?
This directive applies from 2 August 2020. EU countries had to incorporate it into national law by 2 August 2024.
BACKGROUND
The European Commission has published a report on the implementation of this directive.
For more information, see:
‘Flexibility of working time’ on the European Commission's website.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Directive (EU, Euratom) No 1888/2010
2.8.2010
-
OJ L 127, 2.8, 2010, pp. 1-8
RELATED DOCUMENTS
Communication from the Commission to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions: Towards a flexible working environment for mothers (COM(2014) 596 final - Not published in the Official Journal).
Communications from the European Social Committee to the Council and the European Committee on Equal Opportunities for Women and Men: Towards an EU-wide approach to parental leave and flexible working options for mothers.
Directive 2014/856/EU on flexible working for women (European Commission).
Last updated: 27.07.2014



Summary 44:
Fraud affecting the EU’s financial interests: definition of criminal offences
Fraud impacting the Union‘Misappropriation’ means the action of a public official who is directly or indirectly entrusted with the management of funds or assets to commit or disburse funds or appropriate or use assets contrary to the purpose for which they were intended in any way which damages the EU's financial interests.
ACT
Council Directive (EU) 2015/849 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2015 on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purposes of money laundering or terrorist financing.
SUMMARY
WHAT DOES THIS DIRECTIVE DO?
It establishes minimum rules relating to the definition of fraud and sanctions in the area of fraud affecting the European Union (EU).
It aims to ensure that fraud is a criminal offence when it is committed intentionally.
KEY POINTS
The definition of ‘fraud’ is based on the Convention drawn up on the basis of Article K.3.3 of the Treaty on European Union, on the protection of the EU Communities’ financial interests, including the Protocols thereto of 27 September 1996 (4), of 29 November 1996 and of 19 June 1997 (the ‘Convention’) (see summary).
The Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of the Union's Financial Interests (COPEC) is a set of rules designed to protect the EU countries' financial interests against fraud and corruption.
The COPEC Convention applies to the following types of fraud:
passive corruption and misappropriation;
misappropriation of funds and assets;
the abuse of public officials’ functions;
abuse of official positions.
Scope
The directive applies to all public officials covering all relevant officials, whether holding a formal office in the EU, in the Member States or in third countries.
It does not apply to:
public officials who are not in a formal position of authority;
non-EU countries’ nationals;
individuals who are resident in an EU country.
Penalties
EU countries must ensure that:
the offender is subject to the Staff Regulations of the Member State in which the offence was committed;
if the offender is a national of an EU Member State, the offender must be subject to an effective, proportionate, dissuasive and dissuasive financial penalty.
Sanctions
Member States must:
impose sanctions on the offender for the following offences:
fraud against the common VAT system;
defrauding the European Social Fund (ESF);
spreading false information;
using public funds for personal gain;
spamming of EU funds.
Exemptions from sanctions
The Directive does not cover:
any person who:
is not a Member State official;
does not hold a formal official position;
has not held a formal public office;
is a natural person.
References
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition into force
Official Journal
Directive 2015/820/EU
20.5.2015
-
OJ L 141 of 5.6.2015.
RELATED ACTS
Report from the Commission on the implementation of Directive 2015/840/EU on the Prevention of the Use of the Financial System for the Purposes of Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing (COM(2015) 596 final - Not published in the Official Journal)
Report on the application of Directive 2014/13/EU concerning the application by Member States of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 648/2012 concerning the prevention, investigation and prosecution of fraud against the European VAT system (COM (2015) 648 final)
Commission Implementing Regulation (EC) No 596/2014 on the use by Member State authorities of the Common VAT system of measures to prevent, investigate and prosecute fraud and to combat fraud and tax fraud.
Report of the Commission to the European parliament and the Council on the effectiveness of the measures adopted by the Commission and the European Economic and Social Committee in the field of financial crime prevention and combating fraud and terrorism.
Last updated: 27.07.2015



Summary 45:
Interchange fees: EU rules for card-based payment transactions and internet and mobile payments based on cards (Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010)
INTERFERENCE FEFEFEFEFERENCES
SUMMARY OF:
Directive 2014/35/EU on interchange fees
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
   
It lays down uniform EU-wide rules on the application of interchange fees*.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to the following types of payment transactions:
card-based payments, i.e. transactions where a payment is made using a credit or debit card;
internet and mobile payment transactions.
It does not apply to:
banknotes;
cash transactions;
credit cards;
debit cards.
EU countries may define a lower per transaction interchange fee cap for domestic credit card transactions than those applicable in the EU countries. This cap must not exceed 3 % of the value of all card-related transactions made in that EU country. It should not prevent EU countries from maintaining or introducing lower caps or measures of equivalent object or effect through national legislation.
In addition, EU countries may:
limit the amount of the merchant service charges, interchange fees and scheme fees applicable with respect to each category and brand of payment cards, unless the payee subsequently makes a different request in writing;
set up a national authority to monitor the implementation of the regulation;
establish a European supervisory authority to ensure that the regulation’s rules are complied with;
ensure that the European Banking Authority (EBA) is independent of national authorities.
apply the rules laid down in the regulation.
FROM WHEN DOES THE REGULE APPLYEARLY ENTRY INTO FORCE
 
The EU countries had to incorporate it into national law by 9 June 2014.
BACKGROUND
The European Commission has published a report on the impact of EU interchange fees on the development of the electronic payments market in the European Union (EU). The report found that:
interchange fees have developed so as to allow consumers to benefit from efficient debit card markets in terms of card acceptance and card usage with lower interchange fees than the merchant indifference level;
in certain EU countries, they have developed to a level playing field.
For more information, see:
European interchange fees (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Interchange fee: a fee charged by a payment card issuer to a merchant for the use of a payment instrument.
* Scheme fees: fees charged by payment card issuers to a payment service provider for the processing of payment instruments.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Regulation 2014/34/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 May 2014 on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to interchange fees applicable to the payment of credit and debit cards in the Member States and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 716/2009/EC (OJ L 331, 15.6.2014, pp. 1-3)
Successive amendments to Regulation (2014/35) have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 14.02.2016



Summary 46:
Documentation of skills and qualifications: online platform for the documentation of qualifications
Documentation and documentation of skills
SUMMARY OF:
Decision (EU) 2017/852 establishing a European framework to support the transparency and understanding of skills acquired in formal, non-formal and informal settings, including through practical experiences, mobility and volunteering (‘Europass’)
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DECISION?
It establishes a European toolbox to facilitate the documentation and dissemination of skills, competences and qualifications acquired through working and learning experiences.
KEY POINTS
The decision sets up the Europass online platform, which aims to:
provide users with tools for:
documenting and describing their personal information in a variety of formats, including curriculum vitae (CV) templates;
assessment of skills;
self-assessment;
the assessment of skills.
The platform is designed to be user-friendly, understandable and user-centric. It provides users with the possibility to restrict access to their personal data and to certain attributes, such as their name, date of birth, gender, age and occupation.
It also allows users to complete their CVs in a standardised format.
National Europass Centres provide support to users and promote the documentation.
Europass supplements are issued in the form of templates by the competent authorities or bodies. These supplement provide information on the learning outcomes of qualifications.
EU countries are responsible for the implementation of this decision at national level.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS DECISION APPLY?
.
   
It has applied since 1 January 2018.
BACKGROUND
 
The European Skills, Competences, Qualifications and Qualifications (ESQ) initiative was launched in 2013. It aims to improve the quality of education and training in the European Union (EU).
For more information, see:
European skills and competences (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Vocational qualifications: a set of qualifications that are recognised and recognised in the EU and are recognised by the European Commission.
* Qualifications: qualifications which are recognised, recognised and accredited by the Commission and recognised by EU countries.
ACT
Council Decision (EC) No 852/2017 of 21 December 2017 establishing a framework to provide users with online tools to document and disseminate their skills (Europass).
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Council Decision (Euratom) No 802/2017
1.1.2018
-
OJ L 173 of 21.1-
Amending act(s)
Entry-exit procedure
Date of expiry
Entry in force
Expiry date
Expiration date
Date on which the decision becomes operational
Date to be transposed into national law
Date in which it becomes transpositionally applicable
Date for which it will become transposition into the national law of an EU country
Date with which it may be transposition within the Member State
* Expiry: 1.2.2022
* Date of transposition: 1 January 2021
* EU countries must transpose it into their national law.
Last updated: 27.07.2018



Summary 47:
Statistics on passenger transport by inland waterways (NUTS)
Statistics on the passenger transport of goods on inland waterways
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 966/2012 — statistics on passenger traffic by inland waterways
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
   
 
It codifies and repeals Regulation (EC) No 223/2009 on statistics on inland waterway transport.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to:
the total volume of goods transported annually by the EU’s inland waterways as national transport;
the number of vessels transporting goods;
passenger traffic;
traffic movements of vessels;
movements of vessels.
EU countries must supply the European Commission (Eurostat) with the following information and data as it may request:
Tonnes transported (Tonnes) and movements (Vessel-km)
Passenger traffic:
goods not in containers and empty containers;
transport of goods by road, rail, air, sea or inland waterways.
Movements of vehicles:
motor vehicles being moved for repair;
vessels not used for the carriage of goods such as fishery vessels, dredgers, floating workshops, houseboats and pleasure craft.
National authorities must:
provide the Commission with:
data on the number and type of vessels used for inland waterways;
information on the types of goods and movements of vehicles;
a description of the type of vessel and the number of containers used;
details of the types and number of vehicles used for each movement of goods.
The Commission may adopt delegated acts to carry out the statistical actions for which those delegated acts provide, using, where appropriate, a cost-effectiveness analysis, including an assessment of the burden on respondents and of the production costs as referred to in Article 14(3)(c) of the regulation.
Delegated acts may be delegated by the Commission to EU countries or to the European Maritime Safety Agency (EMSA). The Commission must ensure that the delegated acts do not impose a significant additional burden on the Member States or on the respondents.
Implementing acts
The implementing acts must be adopted in accordance with the examination procedure laid down in Article 11(2) of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 596/2013 on the transmission of data subject to statistical confidentiality to the Statistical Office of the European Communities (SOC).
The European Commission must submit a report to Eurostat every 2 years on the quality of the data transmitted.
FROM WHEN DOES THE REGULE APPLY?
It has applied since 1 July 2012.
BACKGROUND
  * KEY TERMS
* Inland waterway: any waterway in the European Union (EU).
* Vessel: any vessel used solely for non-commercial purposes by port administrations and public authorities.
* Movements: movements of goods in and out of a vessel.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (Euratom) 2015/966 of 27 June 2015 on statistics of passenger transport on inland waters (Codified version) (OJ L 130, 29.6.2015, pp. 1-8)
last update 04.02.2016(1) The United Kingdom withdraws from the EU and becomes a third country (non-EU country) as of 1 February 2020.



Summary 48:
Statistics at EU level on rail transport
Statistics at Union level on railway transport
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 596/2013 on EU-level statistics on rail traffic
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
   
 
It sets out the rules for the collection and transmission of statistics on railway traffic in the European Union (EU).
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to:
the carriage of goods and passengers by rail in the course of combined transport operations;
passenger train movements in the form of passenger train movements;
the number of passenger trains moving in and out of the EU.
EU countries must transmit the statistics to Eurostat, the EU’s statistical office, within 3 months of the end of the reference period.
Annexes to the regulation set out the variables and units of measurement to be used in the collection of the statistics. These are:
volume of goods transported;
number of passengers;
total train movements.
Data collection
The statistics to be collected are set out in Annexes I and II of the regulation. They cover:
total goods transported
total passengers
total passenger movements
total rail movements
frequency of train movements
the volume of passenger transport.
The European Commission must adopt implementing acts laying down the arrangements for the dissemination of the results.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECAST APPLY?
The Regulation has applied since 1 January 2014.
It recasts and repeals Regulation (EC) No 182/2011, which had to become law in the EU countries by 1 January 2015.
BACKGROUND
The EU-wide statistics are required to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market in rail transport and to ensure that the EU has a coherent and reliable statistical system.
For more information, see:
‘Railways’ on the European Commission's website.
KEY TERMS
* Combined transport: the transport of goods, passengers and freight by rail.
* Passenger train movements: the number of trains moving between two or more railway stations in one or more EU countries.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 550/2013 of 21 December 2013 on EU level statistics on the rail transport system
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Directive 2014/29/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2014 on the harmonisation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of Member States relating to the collection, transmission and dissemination of statistics in the field of rail transport (recast) (OJ L 347, 28.12.2014, pp. 1-8)
last update 14.02.2016



Summary 49:
Suspension mechanism for the exemption from the visa requirement for non-EU nationals of non-Schengen countries in emergency situations (SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 on the temporary suspension of the exemption of the Schengen visa requirement
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes a mechanism to temporarily suspend the application of an EU country’s visa requirement in the event of an emergency situation.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to nationals of one or more EU countries whose nationals are subject to a visa requirement. It does not apply to the nationals of Switzerland, Austria, the United Kingdom (1) or the European Economic Area (EEA).
It applies to the holders of biometric passports issued by Moldova in line with standards of the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO).
The exemption from visa requirement applies to Moldova, Austria and Switzerland.
It is suspended for a period of 18 months for all nationals of the third country concerned. The period of suspension may be extended by 6 months if the Commission submits a legislative proposal as referred to in point (h) to extend the period of the suspension.
The Commission may adopt delegated acts to suspend the exemption. These implementing acts must be adopted in accordance with the examination procedure set out in Article 11 of the Treaty on European Union (TEU) and must be published in the Official Journal of the European Union.
Annex II of the regulation contains a list of the countries which are included in the list of countries subject to an EU visa requirements.
In the Commission must notify the European Parliament, the name of the country in question and the date on which the exemption is suspended. The notification must contain a footnote indicating that the exemption has been suspended with regard to that third country and specifying the duration of that suspension. The Commission must publish the notification without delay by the Commission in its Official Journal.
A delegated act may be amended by inserting a footnote in the annex to the regulation. The amendment must be made by inserting next to the name on the annex.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLYEAR OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
   
It entered into force on 1 January 2011.
BACKGROUND
The EU countries have to ensure that their nationals are not subject to visa requirements when they travel to the EU.
For more information, see:
Visa requirements (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Visa: a visa issued by the EU country which decides to make its nationals subject to the visa requirements of other EU countries.
* Non-EU country: a country which is not a member of the EU, but which has an agreement with the EU on visa-free travel between the EU and its Member States.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EC) No 184/2011/2011 of 21 December 2011 laying down a mechanism for a temporary suspension (‘the suspension mechanism’) in the emergency situation for a third country listed in Annex II (codified version) (OJ L 183, 28.12.2011, pp. 1-3)
RELATED DOCUMENTS
Council Decision 2008/146/EC of 27 November 2008 on the application, on the basis of Article 3 of Council Regulation (EEC) 2015/852, of the Council of the Union on the implementation, application and development of the Visa-Free Schengens (Codified version).
Council Directive 2008/147/EC on travel facilities for school pupils from third countries resident in an EU Member State (Official Journal L 327, 19.11.2008).
See consolidated version.
last update 04.02.2016



Summary 50:
Eurojust: operational and operational rules for the European Union’s external action unit (Eurojust) (European External Action Service) (JHA)
Eurojust : operational and functional rules for Eurojust (JHJ)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 552/2013 on the operational functions of Eurojust
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out the operational rules and procedures for the functioning of the Eurojust, a European Union (EU) body responsible for investigating and prosecuting serious crime.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The purpose of the regulation is to ensure that Eurojust is able to investigate and prosecute serious crime in the EU.
The regulation applies to all EU countries’ nationals who are nationals of an EU country. It does not apply to EU countries that are not members of the European Economic Area (EEA).
EU countries must notify the European Commission and the European Court of Auditors (OLAF) of the powers they have delegated to Eurojust. These include:
the powers to:
issue or execute any request for mutual legal assistance or mutual recognition;
order, request or execute investigative measures, as provided for in Directive 2014/41/EU on investigative measures;
make requests for operational personal data;
operate liaison magistrates;
take decisions on the transfer and processing of operational data.
Role of the Executive Director and the Executive Secretaries-General principles
The executive director and the executive secretary are appointed by Eurojust on the basis of a proposal from the European Parliament or the Council of the EU country concerned. The European Parliament and the Council.
Each national member is assisted by one deputy and by one assistant. The executive secretary is responsible for:
monitoring and ensuring the application of the data protection provisions of this regulation;
ensuring the proper application of data protection rules;
assisting the European Judicial Committee on the Protection of Personal Data (ECPDP).
The European Commission:
assists Eurojust in its work;
is assisted by the European Criminal Police Office (ECP);
is responsible for the protection of the operational data transferred;
has the power to: issue or execute requests for judicial assistance;
approve or execute investigations;
issue investigative measures.
In urgent cases and in accordance with Article 19, the OCC may receive and transmit the requests referred to in the regulation if they have been issued by a third country which has also been transmitted by a competent national authority. The Commission and Eurojust must ensure that these requests comply with the relevant data protection requirements.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
Decision 2013/852/JHA has applied since 1 July 2013.
BACKGROUND
   
 
The Eurojust organisation was set up in 2002 and has been in operation since 2009. It is the first EU body to be set up under the EU‘s common foreign and security policy.
For more information, see:
‘Eurojust’ on the European Agency for Fundamental Rights’ website.
* KEY TERMS
* Operational functions: the role and structure of the body.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 550/2013 of 21 June 2013 on the operation and functioning of EuroJust (OJ L 183, 1.7.2013, pp. 1-2)
Successive amendments to Regulation (Euratom), Euratom have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 14.02.2016



Summary 51:
Money laundering: criminal law
money laundering: legal system
SUMMARY OF:
Directive (EU) 2015/849 on combating money laundering
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DIRECTIVE?
It aims to combat money laundering by means of criminal law, enabling more efficient and swifter cross-border cooperation between EU countries’ authorities.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The directive applies to all EU countries. It does not apply to money laundering committed by individuals, companies or other legal entities.
It does not cover:
the proceeds of crime;
the effects of money laundering on the economy and the economy of the EU as a whole; or
the transfer of funds between the EU and non-EU countries.
EU countries must take the necessary measures to ensure that, in relation to the offences referred to in Article 3(1) and (5) and Article 4, the following circumstances are to be regarded as aggravating circumstances: the offence was committed within the framework of a criminal organisation within the meaning of Framework Decision 2008/841/JHA (see summary);
the offender is an obliged entity or an oblige entity, and has committed the offence in the exercise of their professional activities.
In addition, EU countries must ensure that the offence is punishable by effective, proportionate and dissuasive criminal penalties.
Penalties must be proportionate to the seriousness of the offence and must be dissuasive.
The offences covered by the directive must be punishable by at least one of the following the following aggravating circumstance:
a person or company has committed an offence that is an offence which is contrary to the general principles of the law of an EU country (e.g. For example, money laundering is a criminal offence if it is committed recklessly or by serious negligence;
an offence is committed by an individual or company which is liable to be liable to liability for the loss or damage caused by the offence;
a criminal organisation is liable for liability if its property was derived from criminal activity.
Exceptions to the above-mentioned aggravating conditions
The offence is also punishable by a maximum penalty of at least 1 year’s imprisonment. The maximum penalty may be reduced to a maximum of 3 years’ imprisonment if the offender is:
an individual, company or entity that is obliged to do so, or has committed such an offence for the purpose of preventing, detecting, investigating, prosecuting or prosecuting the offence, or punishing the offender for the purposes of preventing or investigating the offence.
Procedures for cooperation
In criminal proceedings regarding money laundering, the competent authorities of EU countries should assist each other in the widest possible way and ensure that information is exchanged in an effective and timely manner in accordance with national law and the existing EU legal framework.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS DIRECTIVE APPLY?
 
   
It has applied since 1 July 2015. EU countries had to incorporate it into national law by 1 July 2016.
BACKGROUND
  * KEY TERMS
* Money laundering: the laundering of funds, goods, services, capital, services and intellectual property.
* Currency counterfeiting: the counterfeiting of the euro and other currencies against counterfeiting by criminal law.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Council Directive 2014/62/EU
1.7.2015
-
OJ L 151, 21.5.2014, pp. 1-3
RELATED ACTS
Council Framework Decision (JHA) No 841/2008 of 27 June 2008 on the prevention and combating the financing of organised crime and the illicit trade in counterfeit currency (Official Journal L 151 of 28.6.2008).
Last updated: 27.07.2008



Summary 52:
Convention for the Conservation of Atlantic Tunas (Convention II)
Convention on the conservation of the bluefin tuna
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 1224/2009 on the management of the fishing fleet of bluefin bluefish
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to ensure that the EU’s fishing fleet is managed in line with the International Convention for the Convention (ICCAT) on the Conservation (COT) and the Convention on the Lawful Use of Fishing Vessels for Bluefin Tunas.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to all fishing vessels operating in the eastern Atlantic and the Mediterranean.
It does not apply to fishing vessels fishing in the Black Sea.
EU fishing vessels must:
be equipped to fish for tuna and have an individual quota;
not have current financial or beneficial interests in the fishery;
be accompanied by a master and a trap operator;
have a daily logbook and a video logbook;
keep a video record of all caging operations;
carry out a daily inspection plan;
report to the International Commission for the Control of the International Trade in Tunas and the International Chamber of Commerce (ICCT).
EU countries must take the necessary measures and actions as referred to in Article 37 of the ICCAT Convention.
The European Union (EU) is a party to the Convention and is therefore bound by its obligations to implement the convention.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
  
It has applied since 1 January 2009.
 
From 1 January 2010.
BACKGROUND
The EU is party to:
the Convention on Conservation of the Bluefin tuna;
the COT Convention (the Convention II);
the ICCAT Regional Observation Programme.
For more information, see:
‘Convention’ on the European Commission's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Caged tuna: a species of tuna that is kept in a cage and traded as fresh products.
ACT
Commission Regulation (EU Member State Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 652/2009 of 21 December 2009 on the Management of the Fishing Fleet of Bluefin Tuna (OJ L 131, 21.12.2009, pp. 1-2)
last update 04.02.2016



Summary 53:
Sale of a vessel at less than normal value: injurious pricing
Sale sale of a vehicle at a price below normal value
This regulation codifies and repeals Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 on the sale of vessels at less-than-normal value.
ACT
Council Regulation (EC) No 552/2011 of 25 November 2011 on the enforcement of injurious prices of vessels.
SUMMARY
WHAT DOES THIS REGULATION DO?
It lays down the rules for the enforcement by the European Commission of any sale at a lower than normal price for a vessel sold to a non-market-economy (non-EU) country.
It sets out the procedure for the investigation and prosecution of such sales.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to:
shipbuilding contracts
contracts for the sale or lease of a ship to an exporting country;
ships for the use of the EU’s territorial waters;
seizures of vessels for use in international waters.
The Commission may decide to initiate an investigation if it considers that the sale is causing, or has caused, injury within the meaning of this regulation. It must be established that there is sufficient evidence to justify initiating proceedings. The Commission must examine the accuracy and adequacy of the evidence provided in the complaint, to determine whether there is a need to initiate proceedings.
If the Commission considers that there are sufficient grounds for initiating proceedings, it must do so within 45 days of the complaint being lodged or, or, in the case of initiation, no later than 6 months from the date on which the complaint was lodged.
the Commission must publish a notice in the Official Journal of the European Union (OJ).
The investigation may be terminated by the Commission acting according to the examination procedure referred to in Article 10(2) of the regulation.
Where a shipbuilder does not pay the charge within the applicable time limit, the shipbuilder must be informed of the reasons for its refusal.
In the event of non-compliance, the EU country concerned must notify the Commission of the reason for its non-cooperation.
EU countries must inform the Commission once it has determined that it is necessary to initiate such proceedings. If the Commission decides that the investigation is necessary, the Commission must provide information to the EU countries once it is satisfied that it has established a need.
Procedures for the prosecution of infringements
The European Commission may initiate proceedings against a company if:
it considers that:
the sale of the vessel is causing a loss;
it is causing injury; or
it has caused a loss which is disproportionate to the benefit from the operation of the ship.
An investigation must be launched within 6 months of the sale being known or should have been known, and must be concluded within 1 year of the date of initiation.
Investigations must be open to all interested parties, including the shipbuilding company and the exporting country concerned.
Information must be made available to interested parties as soon as possible.
Requests for confidentiality must not be arbitrarily rejected. In exceptional circumstances, such parties may indicate that such information is not capable of being summarised.
Implementing measures
If a company does not comply with the regulation, it may be subject to sanctions, including:
a reduction in the value of the contract;
a suspension of its export privileges;
the suspension of the right to use the vessel;
restrictions on the number of ships that can be used on the market;
suspension of the rights to use a vessel.
Expiry of the injurious price
In exceptional cases, a company may be required to pay a fine.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
   
 
It has applied since 1 January 2012.
BACKGROUND
 			
The EU has adopted a series of measures to improve the functioning of the internal market in the field of shipbuilding.
For more information, see:
Injurious pricing (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Injurious price: a price which is calculated to result in a profit which is not a reasonable one at the time of sale.
* Expiry: the price at which a contract is concluded for a particular product or service.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Regulation (EC, Euratom):
1.1.2012
-
OJ L 145, 31.12.2011, pp. 1-8
RELATED ACTS
                                   Commission Regulation (Euratom) No 652/2010 of 27 November 2010 on the implementation of Regulation (CFSP) No 1282/2009 on the imposition of penalties for infringements of the laws of Member States relating to the sale and lease of vessels (Codified version).
last update 04.



Summary 54:
EU rules on the design, manufacture and testing of subsystems and safety components for cableways and lifts (Directive 2000/9/EC) (see summary)
European Union (EU) rules governing the design and manufacture of components and subsystems for cables and lifts for cableway installations
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 552/2010 — technical harmonisation and standards for subsystems, safety components and safety information relating to cableways
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It lays down EU rules on:
design, manufacture, testing and certification of subsystem* and safety* components for the carriage of goods and passengers on cableways in the EU;
authorisation and monitoring of installations;
EU declaration of conformity.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to:
cableways and systems for the transport of goods, passengers and persons;
systems for the operation of cableways;
cables for the maintenance, repair or replacement of cables and systems.
It does not apply to: subsystems or safety components that are intended for use in the transport sector, such as:
trailers and escalators;
bicyclists;
rope lifts;
traffic control systems;
motor vehicles;
passenger lifts.
EU countries must ensure that:
the cableway installation complies with the requirements laid down in the regulation;
the manufacturer and importer have complied with the regulation’s requirements;
requests for the CE marking and conformity assessment;
safety analysis and safety report for planned installations are carried out by the competent authorities in the relevant EU countries;
manufacturers and importers have carried out the necessary safety checks.
Importers must carry out the required safety checks before placing a cableway on the market.
Manufacturers must:
operate an approved quality system;
ensure that their products are tested and certified according to the requirements set out in Annex II;
provide the competent national authorities with a copy of the CE conformity assessment report;
conduct a safety analysis and a safety report on their products;
assist the competent authority in carrying out the safety checks;
carry out a safety evaluation of their products before placing them on the EU market;
report to the relevant national authorities on the safety and health of the subsystem or safety component concerned.
The competent authority must inform the EU country concerned of the results of the safety assessment and the safety report, as well as of any corrective measures that may be necessary.
Notification of conformity
The EU country in which the cableway is located must notify the European Commission of its intention to issue a CE marking to a subsystem or a safety component. The CE marking must be affixed under its responsibility.
A notified body must submit a report to the Commission on the conformity assessment, notification or monitoring it has carried out. The report must contain:
a description of the components concerned;
an indication of their conformity status;
a list of the authorised authorities responsible for monitoring the safety of the equipment;
information on the risks to the health and safety of persons and property.
In addition, the Commission must publish a report on the implementation of the regulation in the Official Journal of the European Parliament and of the Council.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
Directive 2010/552/EC has applied since 1 January 2011.
BACKGROUND
   
The cableway sector is one of the most dynamic sectors in the European Union and is subject to a wide range of technical and organisational challenges. This regulation aims to ensure that it is possible to harmonise technical standards to improve the safety, health and environmental performance of the sector.
For more information, see:
Cableway safety (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Cableway: a system of cables, systems or systems intended for the movement of goods or persons on a railway.
* Safety information: a description of a subsystem, safety component or system of equipment that is intended to be used on a rail or on a road. It must be in a language easily understood by users as determined by the Member State concerned, and that the manufacturer and the importer comply with the applicable EU rules.
ACT
Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 550/2010 of 21 December 2010 laying down technical harmonisations and standards relating to subsystems*, safety components, safety information and technical documentation relating to the carriage and operation of cables (OJ L 131, 21.12.2010, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EU, Euromodal) No 555/2010 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 04.02.2021



Summary 55:
Accessibility of products and services for people with disabilities
Assessment and market surveillance of accessibility features for persons with disabilities in the internal market: Directive (EU) 2018/1972
SUMMARY OF:
Directive 2018/72/EU on the assessment and marketing of products with accessibility features
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DIRECTIVE?
It aims to improve the accessibility of products, services and information on the European Union’s internal market.
It sets out minimum requirements for the assessment, marketing and certification of products to ensure that they comply with the accessibility requirements of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (UN CRPD).
KEY POINTS
Scope
The directive applies to:
products and services intended for use by persons with a disability;
electronic communications services and emergency services;
services for the provision of information and communication technologies;
information and communication services.
The scope of the directive is limited to products intended for the use of individuals with disabilities. It does not apply to microenterprises providing services within the scope of this directive.
Evaluation and conformity assessment
Manufacturers, importers and distributors must carry out an assessment of products before placing them on the market. The assessment must be carried out in accordance with the requirements laid down in Annex I.
Distributors and importers must ensure that:
the products they sell comply with all the requirements set out in Annex II;
the technical specifications of the products are clearly visible to all users;
they must indicate in the accessibility features in the packaging and in the instructions and on the products they make available to them;
all technical specifications must be clearly visible and easily understood by all users.
If a product is found to be in breach of these requirements, it must be withdrawn from the market and replaced by a new product that complies with these requirements.
Where a product does not comply, the European Commission must adopt a product to cover all the shortcomings in the technical specifications.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS DIRECTIVE APPLACE?
The legislation applies from 1 January 2019. EU countries had to incorporate it into national law by 1 January 2020.
BACKGROUND
The UN CRPD has adopted a number of measures to improve accessibility in the EU. These include:
Regulation (EC) No 596/2004 on the accessibility and accessibility-related aspects of the European electronic communications sector (see summary);
Regulations (EC, Euratom) No 652/2004 and (EC), No 653/2005 on electronic communication services and (Euratom) Decisions No 654/2004, No 656/2005, No 752/2005 and No 753/2006 on electronic communications services, as amended by Regulation (EC).
For more information, see:
‘Accessibility’ on the EU Commission's website.
KEY TERMS
* Accessibility: the ability of a product or service to perform in an accessible manner.
* Electronic communications services: services that provide information, information or communication technology (e.g. e-mail, social media, etc.).
* Emergency services: emergency services that are designed to be used by users with disabilities, such as ambulances, emergency medical services, fire engines, ambulances and ambulances.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Directive 2018/71/EU of 21 December 2018 on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the assessment of accessibility requirements for products with disabilities (recast) (OJ L 183, 28.12.2018, pp. 1-2)
last update 04.02.2021



Summary 56:
Importers of minerals and metals: due diligence and traceability of their supply chain and checks on the origin of conflict
Importing minerals and metal: due-diligence requirements
Imporcers of metals and minerals
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 — due diligence requirements for the import and export of metals
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to ensure that the EU’s supply chain for metals and mineral products is subject to due diligence* requirements.
It sets out rules for importers of metals, minerals and minerals to ensure the proper functioning of the EU system while guaranteeing that the vast majority of metals imported into the EU are subject to its requirements. It also aims to prevent conflict and illegal exploitation of minerals.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to:
mineral and metals imports from non-EU countries;
minerals and metals imported by EU importers from outside the EU;
metals imported by importers in the EU.
EU importers must:
identify and assess, in accordance with Annex II to the OECD Due Diligence Guidance and the specific recommendations set out in that Guidance, the risks in the supply chain based on available third-party audit reports concerning the smelters and refiners in that chain, and, by assessing, appropriate, the due diligence practices of those companies;
assess and assess the risks based on the information they have available to them;
ensure that they have carried out due diligence checks;
inform the European Commission of the results of these checks.
exchange information on shortcomings detected through the ex-post checks, as well as on infringements of the regulation.
The Commission must keep a list of importers’ annual import volumes of each mineral or metal subject to the regulation, and the volume thresholds listed in Annex I to this regulation, for at least 5 years. The Commission must also keep records of infringements.
Member States must notify the Commission of any infringements that they consider to be serious and must be reported to the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF).
EU countries must establish the rules applicable to infringements, including:
the nature and duration of the infringements;
the penalties for infringements and the penalties for non-compliance;
a list of the mineral and metals covered by the regulation;
details of the importers and importers who have infringed the regulation and the sanctions applicable to them.
In addition, Member States must ensure that:
importers carry out periodic checks on their imports of metals;
they keep a register of the metals they import;
their records are kept for a minimum of 5 years;
there is a system for the exchange of information between the Commission and the Member States of the import volume of each metal and of the minerals covered by this regulation and for the annual import volume thresholds.
Each Member State must establish a national scheme for the management of its mineral and metal import quotas. The regulation sets out the rules for the operation of this scheme.
A national scheme must be notified to the Commission every 5 years of the number of tonnes of minerals or metals it imports and the total volume of minerals it imports. It must also notify the European Parliament and to the Council of the measures it has taken to combat conflict and to hold economic operators accountable under the relevant guidelines as established by the United Nations and OECD.
Annex II of the Regulation sets out:
rules for the implementation of this regulation by Member States’ national schemes;
rules on the notification and notification procedure;
exchanges of information;
requests for Member States to report infringements to the OLAF.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
The Regulation has applied since 1 July 2011. Member States had to incorporate it into national law by 1 July 2012.
BACKGROUND
The EU has adopted a number of measures to tackle conflict in the mining and metals sectors. These include:
a ban on the export of minerals from conflict-affected countries,
rules to combat the proliferation of conflict-related weapons of mass destruction (WMDs) and the use of chemical weapons;
measures to combat trafficking in WMDs.
For more information, see:
Mineral and metal imports (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Mineral: any mineral, metal or mineral-based product, whether it is mined, processed or used for industrial purposes.
* Metals: all metals, including copper, zinc, lead, nickel, cobalt, tin, copper oxide and zinc oxide, which are used in the manufacture of electrical and electronic equipment.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EC) No 184/2011/2011 of 21 June 2011 on due diligence of the Union system for imports and exports of metals (OJ L 347, 21.6.2011, pp. 1-



Summary 57:
Rules on the placing of goods into free zones and the establishment of customs records in the European Free Trade Area (EFTA) (Recast of Regulation (EC) No 596/2004)
Rules on:
the placing of products into free trade areas
the establishment of a customs procedure
the creation of a permanent storage declaration
the storage of goods.
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATIONS?
Regulation (EU) No 550/2004 — placing goods into a free trade area (FTA)
SUMMARY
This regulation sets out the rules for the placing into and establishment of free trade zones (FTAs) of the European Union (EU).
KEY POINTS
Scope
The FTAs are open to all goods, goods and means of transport entering or leaving the EU.
The regulation applies to:
goods placed into the FTAs by the customs authorities of the EU countries;
the goods placed in the FTA on the territory of a non-EU country;
all goods imported or exported from the FTA.
It does not apply to temporary admission with partial relief from import duty.
Authorisation
The customs authorities may grant authorisation to the holder of the authorisation if they consider that the conditions for granting it are fulfilled. The authorisation is valid for a period of 5 years. The holder of an authorisation must keep appropriate records in a form approved by the EU country’s customs authorities.
Customs authorities may carry out any customs controls they deem necessary to ensure that the goods comply with the conditions laid down in the regulation.
they may require that the customs controls are carried out in accordance with the rules laid down by the competent national customs authorities in the territory.
Importation of goods
The goods are subject to customs controls at the entry and exit points of the FTA, as well as at the place where they have been presented without the permission of the customs authority.
Entry and exit summary declarations
When goods are brought into the EU, they must be accompanied by an entry summary declaration. The declaration must be valid for at least 5 years and may be invalidated within 200 days of lodging.
If the goods are not accompanied by a declaration, the goods must be returned to the country where they were brought.
Exchange of information
The declaration must contain:
a description of the goods concerned;
a list of the persons responsible for receiving the goods;
information on the goods involved;
details of the means and methods of transport used;
an explanation of the reasons for the goods’ arrival and departure.
In addition, the declaration must include information on the origin, destination, destination and transit of goods, including:
how the goods were transported;
how they were stored;
where the goods have been transported; and
the conditions for their re-export.
Temporary storage declaration (Temporary Storage Declaration)
The temporary storage declaration may be issued by a customs authority to a person who has been granted authorisation by the European Commission. This authorisation may be transferred to another person who fulfils the conditions set out for the procedure concerned. It must be renewed at least every 3 years. It may be renewed for a further 5 years if the conditions are fulfilled by the holder.
An exit summary declaration
If goods for which an exit declaration has been lodged are not taken out of the VAT free zone, the authorities may invalidate that declaration in either of the following cases:
within 150 days after the lodging of the declaration;
within 200 days after lodging of a declaration.
FROM WHEN DO THE REGUMENTS APPLY?
   
Regulations (EU, EFTA) No 555/2004 and (EC, Euratom) No 652/2004 have applied since 1 July 2004.
Regulatory (EU), Euratom (EC and Euratom).
BACKGROUND
The FTA is one of the most important tools in the fight against counterfeiting. It is designed to reduce customs evasion and to improve the efficiency of the internal market.
For more information, see:
‘The EU Free Trade Agreement’ (European Commission).
MAIN DOCUMENT
 
                    б   ᴀ   Ā 
Commission Regulation (EU/2005) of 1 July 2005 laying down the rules on placing goods in a free-trade area (OJ L 183, 1.7.2005, pp. 1-2)
Successive amendments to Regulation (Euratom) no 555/2005 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 04.02.2021



Summary 58:
EU rules on the enforcement of infringements of intellectual property rights in the internal market (Implementing Regulation (EC) No 1383/2003)
EU rules in the Internal Market
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 1303/2003 on the protection of intellectual Property rights in internal market
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
   
 
It aims to protect intellectual property (IP) rights by:
ensuring that customs authorities have the necessary resources to detect infringements;
improving cooperation between EU countries’ customs authorities;
establishing a central database to facilitate the exchange of information on infringements.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to goods of a non-commercial nature contained in travellers’ personal luggage.
It does not apply to:
goods imported into the EU from non-EU countries;
items imported into EU countries that are intended to be used for commercial purposes;
personal data and personal data contained in personal luggage;
travel documents.
Requests for access to the database
Customs authorities must receive applications for the right of access, rectification or destruction of goods.
The application must contain the following information:
the name and address of the holder of the intellectual property right;
the date and place of origin of the goods;
where the goods are imported from outside the EU;
a description of the nature and quantity of the infringing goods and their provenance.
If the applicant’s identity;
any other information requested.
the customs department considers that the application does not contain all the information required, it may refuse to accept the application.
An application must be accompanied by a recommendation for action.
Where the applicant does not provide the information requested, the competent customs department may decide to suspend the action of the customs authorities until the applicant has provided the necessary information.
In the event that the applicant fails to provide the requested information, the applicant may be informed of the decision and the reasons for the decision.
Implementation of the regulation
The competent customs authorities must:
notify the applicant within 10 working days of receiving the application;
ensure that the information provided in the application is:
relevant to the investigation and prosecution of the infringer;
notifies the applicant of the measures to be taken;
provide the applicant with information on the procedure to be followed in the event of a breach of the notification obligations;
make available to the applicant the information necessary to determine whether an infringed right has been infringed;
send the applicant a copy of a decision on the expiry of the period during which those authorities are to take action;
give the applicant an opportunity to appeal against the decision;
receive a written confirmation from the applicant that the decision has been taken.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULATOR APPLY?
It has applied since 1 January 2004.
BACKGROUND
 			
  The regulation is part of a package of measures designed to improve cooperation between the EU countries in the area of customs.
For more information, see:
‘The Internal Market’ on the European Commission's website.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Commission Implementing Regulation(EU) 2016/1383 of 21 December 2016 on the Protection of Intellectual Property Rights in Internal Market (Implementation Regulation (EU-2013) (OJ L 347, 28.12.2016, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EEC-2013/33) have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
Commission implementing act(s) No 1296/2013 of 20 December 2013 on the implementation of Regulation (OEC) 2013/33 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 December 2013 laying down common rules on customs cooperation in the field of customs cooperation and on information exchange between Member States and on the processing of personal data by Member States’ competent authorities and on data security.
Council Implementing Decision (EU, Euratom) 2015/852 of 20 November 2015 on the establishment of a central central database for the processing and management of information concerning infringements and infringements in internal markets and on access to personal data and on free movement of such data.
See consolidated version.
last update 04.01.2016



Summary 59:
EU-wide customs cooperation programme (EU-2020)
EU-2019/2020: EU-2020 customs cooperation
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 952/2013 establishing a customs programme at EU level
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes a European Union-wide programme for cooperation between EU countries’ customs authorities.
It aims to improve cooperation between the EU’s customs authorities in the field of customs.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The programme covers cooperation with third countries that are not participating in the programme or with international organisations, as well as cooperation with non-EU countries.
Objectives
The aim of the programme is to:
support the development, deployment, maintenance and operation of adaptations of or extensions to the common components of the European electronic systems for customs cooperation;
provide technical and administrative assistance to the customs authorities of the participating countries;
develop and implement project-based structured collaboration;
promote the exchange of information and best practice in the fields of customs cooperation.
Cooperation
The European Commission is responsible for implementing the programme. The programme is funded by the European Union (EU). It is implemented by the EU budget.
Programme objectives
The objectives of the Programme include:
improving the interoperability and interoperability of the EU electronic systems;
encouraging the exchange and exchange of best practices in customs cooperation between customs authorities;
supporting the development and use of the common electronic systems to enable customs authorities to exchange information, best practices, best practice and best practices;
enhancing customs cooperation with the non-performing countries and international organisations;
examining the application of the principles of the Schengenomenal system;
contributing to the harmonisation of customs procedures and procedures.
Funding
The EU budget for the programme covers the costs of the implementation of:
the development and deployment of the electronic systems,
the maintenance of the systems and procedures;
the implementation of project groups;
research and development activities;
technical and organisational assistance activities.
Exemptions
The Programme may be eligible for funding when it is of interest to the EU. It may also be eligible to support the activities of third countries, such as those involved in:
countering counterfeiting and fraud;
counterfeiting prevention;
monitoring and control of counterfeit goods;
implementing the harmonised system for the control of goods at the EU's external borders;
cooperating with the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) and repealing Regulation (Euratom) No 1074/1999 (OJ L 248, 18.9.2017, pp. 29-30).
Exemption
The Commission may exclude from the scope of this programme actions that are of particular interest to third countries or international organisations.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
It entered into force on 1 January 2020.
BACKGROUND
The regulation is part of a package of measures designed to modernise and modernise customs cooperation in the EU in order to improve its efficiency and effectiveness.
For more information, see:
EU customs cooperation (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Customs: the customs authority responsible for the inspection, control and inspection of goods.
ACT
Commission Decision No 951/2013/EU of 30 May 2013 establishing a Customs programme at Union level.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Decision No 961/2014/EU
1.1.2014
-
OJ C 202 of 30.5.2014.
RELATED ACTS
Commission Delegated Regulation (EC) No 1294/2013 of 27 November 2013 on the establishment of a European electronic information system for customs (Official Journal L 198 of 28.11.2013).
Last updated: 27.02.2014



Summary 60:
Equal opportunities and access to the labour market, fair working conditions and inclusion: European Social Fund (ESF+ strand)
Equitable opportunities and opportunities: European social fund
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) 2021/1060 on the European social framework and the social inclusion strand under shared management
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out the objectives of the social dimension of the European Pillar of Social Rights and Equal Opportunities, which is the cornerstone of the EU’s social policy.
It establishes a social inclusion policy strand under the European Structural and Investment Funds.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The social dimension is one of the three pillars of the Pillar of European Union (EU). The other two are equal opportunities and equal opportunities, which are based on the principle of equal opportunities.
The Social Pillar is structured in three categories: equal opportunities; fair work conditions; and social protection and inclusion.
EU countries are required to ensure that:
equal opportunities are achieved by:
participants in employment, including self-employment, six months after leaving;
people with an improved labour market situation 6 months after leave;
workers with a fair working condition;
persons with access to social protection.
In addition, EU countries are obliged to:
promote the socio-economic integration of third-country nationals;
encourage the integration of non-EU nationals into the EU society;
fight against material deprivation;
ensure that people with disabilities have access to adequate housing and adequate health care;
have access to education;
participate in the labour markets;
improve the quality of social housing and social housing;
increase access to affordable housing.
Specific objectives
To achieve the objectives set out in the Social Pillar, the Social Fund must:
provide financial support to the social partners and civil society organisations in the implementation of social inclusion policies;
support the creation of networks and networks of social partners;
facilitate the exchange of information, communication and publicity on social inclusion;
contribute to the development of innovative social policies and strategies;
provides technical assistance to social partners, civil society and other interested parties;
assist in the development and implementation of strategies at EU level relevant to the ESF+.
The ESF+ is managed by the European Stability Mechanism (ESM).
The European Commission is responsible for implementing the rules on the use of the financial support from the European structural funds.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULATING REGULATIONS APPLY?
 
   
It has applied since 28 April 2021.
BACKGROUND
The Pillar of Europe is a key element of the Union's social dimension. It aims to promote equal opportunities for all citizens and to improve the living standards of all people in the EU.
For more information, see:
‘Equal Opportunities and Equal Work Conditions’ (European Commission).
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EC) No 1021/2011 of 28 April 2011 establishing the European Social Framework and the Social Inclusion strand under a shared management (SIF+) (OJ L 127, 28.4.2011, pp. 1-2)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EU, 2021/1160 have been incorporated into the original document. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
                                   Commission Implementing Decision (EU), Euratom, Euratom and Euratom Implementing Regulation (Euratom) 2019/852 of 28 March 2019 on the implementation and management of the Social Innovation strand of the ESIF+ (OCT) (SIS) and repealing Decision (EURatom) No 1309/2013 on the EU Globalisation Adjustment Fund for Displaced Workers (EGF).
last update 14.02.2021



Summary 61:
European Solidarity Corps Programme (ESCP) 2018-2020 — activities for young Europeans
European Solidity Corps Programme for young people
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) 2021/817 — European Solidarity Card Programme
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes a European solidarity programme for young European citizens.
It aims to encourage young people to express their solidarity in practice.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The programme covers the period from 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2020. It is open to the participation of organisations from the European Union (EU).
Objectives
The aim of the programme is to:
promote solidarity among young people in the EU;
provide them with opportunities to contribute to the development of the EU’s solidarity policies and actions;
encourage them to participate actively in the activities of the Union;
contribute to strengthening communities and civic participation.
Participating organisations
To become a participating organisation, organisations must meet the following criteria:
be based in an EU country or territory;
have at least 2 years’ experience in the field of solidarity;
be active in the areas covered by the programme;
participate in activities that respond to unmet societal needs and contribute to strengthening the civic participation of young people.
Organisations participating in the programme must:
have a budget of at least €500,000;
meet the requirements and objectives of the Programme;
operate in accordance with the principles of the European Pillar of Social Rights and the European Charter of Fundamental Rights, as set out in Article 3 of the Treaty on the EU's Fundamental Rights;
notify the European Parliament, the Council and the Council of Europe, the European Economic and Social Committee of the Regions, and the Committee on the Functioning of the Council;
apply the principles and procedures laid down in Articles 1 and 2 of the Charter of European Social Rights.
Quality and support measures
EU countries and territories must ensure that the programme has a high level of quality and support. The level of support is based on objective criteria such as:
the quality and effectiveness of the activities;
the impact of the actions on young people;
their impact on society and on the economy.
The quality of the work programmes and the quality of support measures must be monitored and evaluated regularly.
In addition, EU countries must ensure, at national level, that the actions implemented under the programme are:
integrated into national programmes and work programmes;
coordinated with other EU programmes and projects;
transformed into a coherent, coherent and coherent work programme.
Financing
The European Union provides financial support to participating organisations based on a number of criteria, including:
a minimum budget of €500 000;
a maximum of €1.5 million for each participating organisation;
an annual work programme of €2 million for the period 2018-20;
support measures of €5 million.
National authorities are responsible for implementing the programme and ensuring that the projects are implemented in line with the programme objectives. They must also ensure that:
projects are implemented according to the principles laid down by the Pillar of social rights;
organisations have the necessary financial resources to carry out their work;
work programmes are designed to be flexible and adaptable to the needs of the participants;
projects have the capacity to scale-up and to be completed in a timely manner.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULATIONS APPLY?
   
 
It has applied since 1 January 2021.
BACKGROUND
  The European Solidity Programme is part of the broader European solidarity policy, which aims to strengthen the solidarity of young Europeans. The programme is one of a series of initiatives designed to promote solidarity and strengthen civic participation in Europe.
For more information, see:
European solidarity programme (European Commission).
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2021 / 817 of 21 December 2021 on the European Solidary Corps Programme.
Successive amendments and corrections to Council Regulation (Euratom) No 817/21 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
 			
Council Decision 2014/852/EU of 27 November 2014 on the implementation of the 2018-2019 European Solidarius Corps Programme and repealing Council Decision (EURO) 2020/821 (OJ L 347, 28.11.2014, pp. 1-2)
Council Directive (EU), Euratom, Euronews, Euromonitor, Euromodal, Euramodal and Euratom Implementing Decision (EC) No 596/2014 on the evaluation of the implementation and monitoring of the Community Solidarity Programme (ECSP) (ECP) (OJC) (EEC) (COM(2014) 596 final, 30.12.2014)
Commission Implementing Regulation (



Summary 62:
Equal Opportunities Guarantee (EGF)
Equitable Opportunities Grant
SUMMARY OF:
Directive (EU) 2017/1371 on equal Opportunities for Gender Equality
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DIRECTIVE?
It aims to improve the quality of life of women and men in the European Union (EU).
KEY POINTS
The European Gender Equality Grant (EGG) is the EU’s first social investment programme. It aims to reduce inequalities and promote equal opportunities between men and women in the labour market.
The EGF is funded by the EU budget. It is designed to:
promote equal opportunities for women in employment and self-employment;
encourage the creation of a sustainable and resource-efficient economy;
support the growth of the self-employed sector;
provide training and vocational training to women in education and training sectors.
Scope
The programme is open to all EU countries, regardless of whether they are Member States or not. It covers the period from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2027.
Eligible beneficiaries
EU countries must ensure that:
the beneficiaries are:
employed;
employed in education or training;
self-employed.
Beneficiaries are eligible for the EGF if they:
have a job or training qualification;
have been unemployed for at least 6 months;
are unemployed for more than 6 months.
They are eligible if they have been unemployed or have been laid off during the reference period (1 January 2017-31 December 2018).
The beneficiaries must be:
working women;
working men or men with a qualification or vocational training experience;
women with a degree or training experience, and
employed women with a training qualification.
Applicants must have:
been unemployed or laid off;
been in employment or training for 6 months or more;
had a job, training or qualification within 6 months of being unemployed or having a qualification by 6 months after the end of the implementation period.
Participation
The EU country concerned must:
make contact with the beneficiaries and provide them with information on the programme;
ensure that the beneficiaries have access to the coordinated package of personalised services;
assist the beneficiaries in the preparation of their employment and training plans;
cooperate with other EU countries to ensure that the programme is implemented correctly;
make available to the beneficiaries information on their rights and obligations, including the conditions under which they can participate in the programme.
In addition, the European Commission is responsible for:
monitoring the implementation of the programme and ensuring that beneficiaries receive the information they need;
coordinating the programme with other relevant bodies and bodies in the field of employment, training and training; and
providing technical assistance to beneficiaries.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS DIRECTIVE APPLY?
The directive has applied since 1 January 2018.
BACKGROUND
Gender Equality Grant is part of the European Social Fund (ESF). The EGF was first launched in 2009 and has been extended several times, most recently in 2016.
For more information, see:
Gender equality and equal opportunities (European Commission).
MAIN DOCUMENT
 
   
Directives (EU, Euratom) 2018/1321 and (EC) 2017 /1371 of the Council and of the Representatives of the Governments of the Member States of the Union on Equal Opportunities For Gender Equality (EGF) (OJ L 131, 28.5.2018, pp. 1-2)
Successive amendments to Directive (EU), Euratom have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 14.02.2021



Summary 63:
Transparency register for the European Parliament and Council of the European Union (Euratom)
Transparency record for the Council and the EU institutions
SUMMARY OF:
Decision (EU) 2020/852 on a mandatory transparency register
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DECISION AND THE REGULATION?
The decision aims to ensure the transparency of EU institutions’ policies, programmes and activities.
The regulation sets out the rules and procedures for the management of the transparency register.
KEY POINTS
The register is maintained by the European Commission’s Directorate-General for Internal Audiovisual Affairs (DIA).
It is open to applicants and registrants.
Applicants must:
present, if requested, supporting material demonstrating that the information relating to their registration continues to be accurate;
cooperate sincerely and constructively in accordance with the procedures set out in Annex III.
In the context of monitoring or of an investigation by the Secretariat, registrants must in particular:
provide evidence that they have observed the code of conduct;
make their views known in writing;
notify the secretariat if they believe they have been the subject of a serious breach of confidentiality.
If a registrant concerns by an investigation is not cooperating sincerely or constructively with the investigation, it may close the investigation and remove the registration concerned from the register. The registrant concerned may, after having given the registrant the possibility to make their views know in writing, decide to reopen the investigation.
An annual report on the functioning of the register is published by the DIA.
FROM WHEN DO THE DECISIONS AND REGULATIONS APPLY?
They apply from 20 May 2021.
BACKGROUND
The European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions have signed the Interinstitutional Transparency Register (ITR). The aim of the ITR is to:
ensure transparency in EU policies and programmes;
promote dialogue between EU institutions and the public;
improve the quality of information available to the public.
For more information, see:
‘The Transparency Register’ on the Euratom website.
* KEY TERMS
Applicant: any person wishing to be a permanent representative of an EU institution.
Recognition: the recognition by an institution that an applicant is a permanent representation.
Confidentiality: the right of an institution to keep confidential information.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Decision (EU). 20.5.2020
-
OJ L 207 of 11.6.2021.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
Council Regulation (EC) No 852/2010 of 20 May 2010 establishing a European Transparency Register and amending Council Regulation (EURatom) No 596/2010 on the registration of permanent representations.
Communication from the Commission to the Council on the signing, on behalf of the EU, and provisional application of the interinstitutional transparency register (COM(2010) 596 final - Not published in the Official Journal).
last update 14.02.2022



Summary 64:
Budgetary cooperation between the European Union institutions
Budgets and budgetary cooperation
SUMMARY OF:
Agreement on budgetary discipline between the Institutions on budgetary matters
Decision (EU) 2021/2027 on the conclusion of the Agreement on the implementation of budgetary discipline
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE AGREEMENT AND THE DECISION?
The agreement aims to implement budgetary discipline, to improve the functioning of the annual budgetary procedure and cooperation with the European Parliament and the Council.
The decision concludes the agreement on behalf of the European Commission.
KEY POINTS
The EU’s budget is the subject of a multiannual financial framework. It covers the period 2021-2027. The agreement establishes a roadmap for the introduction of new own resources that are sufficient to cover the repayment of a European Union Recovery Instrument established under Council Regulation (EURI) 2020/2094 (1) (the "EURI Regulation"). The annexes to this agreement form an integral part thereof.
In order to ensure full information as well as transparency and visibility as regards the loan component of the EU Recovery Instrument, the Commission will provide detailed information about loans provided to Member States under the EURI. The Commission will also provide the EU Parliament and Council with a financial forecast for the remainder of the financial year.
Member States will be required to provide the Commission with:
a draft budget for the current financial year;
a report on the progress made by the Member States in implementing the EU budget;
an annual report on their own resources; and
a financial forecast.
the Commission will publish its draft estimates for the following the draft budget.
Cooperation between the institutions
The institutions will:
meet on an ad hoc basis if one institution provides a reasoned request. They will jointly assess the matter with a view to finding common ground within 3 weeks of the request for a meeting.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
  
The Agreement entered into force on 1 January 2021.
BACKGROUND
 
  The European Commission is responsible for implementing budgetary discipline. This is achieved by:
establishing budgetary discipline;
ensuring sound financial management;
implementing the European Green Deal for Europe (see summary).
The EURI Regulation establishes a framework for own resources for the EU.
For more information, see:
‘The EU budget’ on the Commission's website.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force
Deadline for transposition in the Member State
Official Journal
Council Decision 2021/2020/2021
1.1.21.21
2.2.2022
3.3.2023
4.4.2025
5.5.2026
6.6.2027
7.7.2028
8.7
9.8.2030
10.9.2031
11.10.2032
Last updated: 27.07.2021



Summary 65:
Economic and social support for COVID-19 crisis: financial instruments
Economic and Social support for the COVID–19 crisis
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 552/2018 — financial instruments for the economic and social response to COVID‑19 crisis (OJ L 347, 31.12.2018, pp. 1-8)
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
   
 
It establishes a financial instrument for the EU’s economic and economic response to the COVIC-19 economic crisis.
KEY POINTS
The exceptional situation caused by COVID‐19, which is beyond the control of EU countries, has caused significant disturbances to economic activity which are reflected in a steep decline in gross domestic product and a significant impact on employment, social conditions, poverty and inequalities.
In order to prevent further deterioration of the economy, employment and social cohesion and to boost a sustainable and resilient recovery of economic activity, the European Union (EU) is putting in place an exceptional and coordinated programme of measures.
The measures are designed to:
provide financial support to EU countries that have been particularly hard hit by the crisis;
support the recovery of the tourism sector;
contribute to the creation of jobs, growth and employment in rural areas in addressing the impact of COVID’19;
promote the development of sustainable and inclusive growth and jobs;
improve the quality of life in the labour market;
strengthen social cohesion;
increase the capacity of EU citizens;
inform the European Commission of the measures to be put in place.
Scope
The financial instruments cover:
economic support for EU countries experiencing a significant deterioration in their economic situation;
financial support for tourism and tourism sectors;
investment support for rural areas;
economic and investment support for agriculture and development;
social support for small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs);
support for the sustainable development of rural areas.
Financing
The instruments are financed by:
the EU budget;
the European Regional Development Fund (EDF) and the European Investment Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EIB);
the contribution of the European Social Fund for Rural Development (ESFD) and its Member States’ contributions to the EU budget.
Funding
The instrument is financed up to an amount of EUR 750 million in 2018 prices on the basis of the empowerment provided for in Article 5 of the Own Resources Decision.
EU countries are required to provide the Commission with a report on the implementation of the instruments by 31 October 2022. This report must include information on the economic situation in their countries and the measures they have taken to cope with the crisis. The Commission must prepare a report for the European Parliament and the Council on the progress made by the Member States in implementing the instruments.
Implementation
The Commission is responsible for:
implementing the instruments;
monitoring their implementation;
providing technical and administrative assistance;
ensuring that the instruments are properly implemented;
maintaining and improving the quality and efficiency of the information and communication systems.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULATIONS APPLY?
The regulation has applied since 31 December 2018.
BACKGROUND
The COVID crisis has had a major impact on the economy of the EU and on social cohesion in general.
For more information, see:
‘Economic and economic support’ on the Commission's website.
* KEY TERMS
* COVID: crisis in the context of the crisis in Cyprus (European External Action Service). COVID refers to the crisis caused by the collapse of the Cypriot financial union (COVID).
* Tourism sector: tourism is one of the most important economic sectors in the EU, which has suffered a significant decline in GDP and has been hit particularly hard due to the deterioration in consumer demand.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member State
Official Journal
Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 529/2018
31.12-20.2018
-
OJ C 347 of 31.11.2018.
RELATED ACTS
Council Implementing Regulation (Euratom) 2018/852 of 31 October 2018 establishing an Instrument for the Economic and Social Response to the Crisis in Cyprus, as amended by Council Regulation (EU), on the financing and investment operations relating to the economic, social and territorial cohesion of Member States experiencing a major deterioration in the economy and on the social cohesion of their Member States during the crisis [Official Journal L 347 of 30.10.2018].
last update 04.02.2022



Summary 66:
Sanctions in the Stability and Growth Pact for countries whose currency is the euro (SGP)
Sanctions on countries with a currency other than the euro
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 1466/97 — preventive and corrective measures in the euro area
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes a system of sanctions for Member States whose currency, the euro, is not the euro.
It aims to ensure that Member States’ economic and monetary policies comply with the stability and growth pact.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to all Member States. It does not apply to:
non-euro area Member States;
euro area countries that do not use the euro;
those that have adopted the euro as their national currency.
The Regulation applies to Member States that are not euro area countries.
Penalties
Member States must lodge with the European Commission an interest-bearing deposit amounting to 0.2 % of their gross domestic product (GDP) in the preceding year. The amount of the deposit must not exceed 0.5 % of the GDP of the Member State concerned. The Member State must inform the Commission of any non-interest-bearing deposits it has lodged. The Commission may, within 20 days of adoption of the Council’s decision, recommend that a Member State lodge a deposit. If the Council adopts a decision requiring a lodgement, the Commission must submit a report to the European Parliament and the European Economic and Social Committee on the basis of the report. The report must be sent to the Council within 10 days of the decision.
If the Commission decides to abrogate some or all of its decisions, it must return the deposit.
Fines
The Member State in question must pay a fine of at least 0.3 % of its GDP in the previous year. This fine may not exceed 1 % of GDP. The fine must be made up by:
the Member State that lodged the deposit;
the Commission;
a Member State which has not lodged a deposit; or
any other Member State with a deficit over the reference value.
In exceptional circumstances, the Council may decide to impose a fine on an EU country that intentionally or by serious negligence misrepresents deficit and debt data relevant for the application of Articles 121 or 126 TFEU and for the applying the excessive deficit procedure annexed to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
The Council may also impose fines on Member States which do not meet the medium-term budgetary objective (MRA). The fine may be:
0.2% of GDP;
1.5% of the Gross Domestic Product;
2.5%.
The fine may exceed 3% if the fine exceeds the amount of an interest deposit lodged with the Commission, or 3.5%, depending on the nature of the irregularity.
Report from the Commission
The Commission is responsible for:
monitoring the implementation of the SGP;
assisting the Member States in their implementation;
providing on-site inspections;
making recommendations and warnings.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
The SGP entered into force on 1 July 1997.
BACKGROUND
   
 
The Stability and growth Pact (SGF) is the cornerstone of the EU’S economic and financial rules. It is designed to ensure the proper functioning of the single currency and the soundness of the monetary union.
For more information, see:
Sustainable growth and jobs (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Excessive deficit: an excessive deficit is a deficit that is greater than 2 % of gross domestic products (GDI).
* Fiscal deficit: a deficit which is larger than the GDI.
* Misrepresentation: a government deficit over a given budget year.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2014/97 of 21 June 1997 laying down a system for the enforcement of the preventive and the corrective parts of the Stability & Growth Pact (OJ L 127, 21.5.1997, pp. 1-2)
Successive amendments to Regulation (Euratom) no 1466 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 04.02.2016



Summary 67:
EU statistics — quality of data and metadata (2014-2020)
EU statistics – quality of information (2014 - 2020)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 176/2008 on the quality of EU statistics
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out the rules for the production and dissemination of European Union (EU) statistics.
It aims to improve the quality and comparability of the EU’s statistical data.
KEY POINTS
EU countries must transmit to the European Commission (Eurostat) statistical data on the following topics:
housing arrangements,
type of living quarters and
occupancy status of conventional dwellings;
relationships between household members and households;
tenure status of households.
The regulation sets out technical specifications for the topics and breakdowns of the topics, as well as of their breakdowns, in accordance with the technical specifications set out in the regulation. These technical specifications must be adopted by the national and EU statistical authorities and transmitted to Eurostat in electronic form.
Each EU country must ensure that the data transmitted conform to the following technical specifications:
the technical specifications of the topic as required by this regulation as set out by the European Statistics Code of Practice adopted on 24 February 2005 by the Statistical Programme Committee, established by Council Decision 89/382/EEC, Euratom (4) and attached to the Recommendation of the Commission on the independence, integrity and accountability of the European and Community statistical authorities;
the breakdown of the data and the metadata.
the format of the metadata and the quality reports.
Eurostat:
transmits the validated data to the Commission (e.g. in electronic format;
assesses the quality;
publishes quality reports on the statistical data transmitted;
establishes a quality report system.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULATIONS APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 January 2009.
BACKGROUND
The European Commission is responsible for producing and disseminating EU statistics. It is assisted by the statistical programme committee.
For more information, see:
‘Quality of European statistics’ on Eurostat's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Non-derived topics: these include:
living arrangements (i.e. the current place; or place of usual residence one year prior to the census;
housing status: the number of occupants of a housing unit;
ownership status of a conventional dwelling;
units of housing;
number of occupants;
useful floor space and/or number of rooms of housing units;
water supply system;
toilet facilities;
bathing facilities,
types of heating,
dwellings by type of building;
types and duration of construction;
duration of construction.
References
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Commission Implementing Regulation (Euratom) No 496/2014
1.1.2014
-
OJ L 61 of 5.2.2014.
RELATED ACTS
 
Regulations (EC, EC) No 596/2013 and (EC), Euratom and Euratom Implementing Decision (EUR) No 605/2014 of the Council and of the Representatives of the Governments, meeting within the Council, on the implementation of Regulation (EC).
Council Recommendation (EU, Euratom, EEC) 2014/605 of 25 November 2014 on the verification of the quality, reliability and availability of European statistical data and on the transmission of metadata (Official Journal L 53 of 27.11.2014).
Regulating (EU). Euratom. Euratom: Euratom implementing Decision 2014/715/EU.
Council Regulation (EU/E2020) Euratom of 27 November 2014 establishing a European statistical programme.
Last updated: 27.02.2015



Summary 68:
Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament and of the Council of the EU (9th parliamentary term)
Rules of Procedures of Parliament and the Council
SUMMARY OF:
Decision (EU) 2019/973 — rules of procedure for the ninth parliamentary term
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DECISION AND THE RULES OF PROCEDURE?
The decision sets out the rules governing the procedure of the 9th European Parliament, the Council and the European Union (EU).
The purpose of the rules is to ensure the smooth functioning of the institution and the efficient application of EU law.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The rules apply to:
the work of the Parliament and to the Council;
the Council and Commission;
legislation and decisions adopted by the Council, the Commission, the European Economic and Social Committee, the Committee of the Regions and the Committee on the Functioning of the Union (COSCE);
the EU budget.
Political parties and committees
The Parliament has a number of committees and subcommittees.
The committees are responsible for:
drafting the agenda;
preparing the work programme;
drawing up the estimates of the budget for the current financial year;
organising the debate on cases of breaches of human rights, democracy and the rule of law;
advising the Council on the implementation of the human rights and democracy principles;
examining the legal basis of EU treaties and agreements.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCELEVEL
   
The 9th Parliament’s 9th Parliamentary term runs from 11 July 2019 to 22 July 2019.
REFERENCES
1.
Act
Entry into force
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
9.7.2019
-
OJ L 302 of 11.11.7
Last updated: 22.07.2019



Summary 69:
European Data Protection Supervisor (EDPS) — rules on the processing of personal data and the protection of the rights of natural persons in the European Union (EU) (Official Journal C 202)
European data protection supervisor (EDPB)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2018/1725 — establishing an independent authority to ensure that the fundamental rights and freedoms of natural people, and in particular their right to data protection, with respect to processing of their personal data, are respected by the EU institutions, bodies, offices and agencies
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes a European data protection supervisory authority, referred to as the European Data Protection supervisor.
It sets out the tasks and responsibilities of the EDPS.
KEY POINTS
The EDPS’s tasks include:
monitoring, investigative and enforcement powers;
developing and maintaining contact with relevant members and staff of the national supervisory authorities;
ensuring that data protection is respected by EU institutions and bodies;
assisting the European Commission in the implementation of the EU data protection rules;
providing advice to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions on data protection.
The role of the Director
The Director is responsible for the day-to-day running of the Directorate-General for the Protection of the Data Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms of the Union. The Director is assisted by the Director and the Director-General of the European External Action Service (EEPSR).
The Directorate-general of the EDPBudget and administration of the EPBudget
The director:
has the power to adopt and sign other documents;
may delegate the powers of authorising officer and accounting officer to the Director;
is responsible for:
the budget and administration;
the management of the EPSR secretariat;
organising the EPRB secretariat.
In addition, the Director:
may:
make recommendations to the Commission;
make proposals to the EPBR secretariat and to the EDRB;
take decisions on the budget;
act as a mediator between the EPPRB and the EPHRB secretariat in the event of disputes between EPHRBs;
draw up and implement guidelines on the use of EPHRs.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULATIONS APPLY?
   
It has applied since 25 May 2018.
BACKGROUND
The EPHR has been in place since 1 January 2019.
For more information, see:
The European data privacy supervisor (European EPHR).
KEY TERMS
* Data protection supervisor: the person responsible for ensuring that the EU institution, body, office or body responsible for processing personal data (e.g. the European Police Office for Criminal Justice).
* EPHR: the body that collects, stores and processes personal data.
* Personal data: the personal data of individuals.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Decision No 1725/2018/EU
25.5.2018
-
OJ C 202 of 25.6.2018.
Last updated: 25.11.2018



Summary 70:
The EU’s own resources
The EU's own resources (OJ L 253 of 7 June 2007)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 609/2014 on the system of the European Communities’ European Communities' own resources and repealing Council Decision 2007/436/EC
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION AND THE DECISION?
The regulation establishes a system of own resources for the European Union (EU).
The purpose of the system is to provide the EU with the means to meet its financial needs.
It aims to ensure that the EU is able to finance its own budget and its own activities.
KEY POINTS
The system is based on the Gross National Income (GNI) keys.
The GNI keys are based on a uniform call rate of EUR 0,80 per kilogram.
There are 3 categories of own resource:
cash resources: the gross national income of the EU countries;
other own resources: revenue from the EU budget and other sources of revenue, such as taxes and other taxes;
investment resources: loans from the European Investment Bank (EIB), the European Regional Development Fund (ERF) and the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (ERDF);
administrative resources: grants and loans from EU countries.
In addition, the EU may call on the Member States to provisionally provide the difference between the overall assets and the cash resource requirements, in proportion (‘pro rata’) to the estimated budget revenue of each of them. This is done in accordance with the GNI key.
This is done on the basis of the average annual gross domestic product (GDP) of each Member State.
Borrowings: the EU borrows up to a maximum amount of EUR 390 million for expenditure and up to an average annual amount of € 1.5 billion for revenue.
Repayments: repayments are made on the principal of the loans. The amount of the loan must not exceed 7.5 % of the total amount of expenditure.
EU countries must repay the loans within 3 years of the end of the borrowing period. The repayments must cover the entire volume of funds borrowed under the empowerment of the Commission. The repayment period should not exceed 3 years from the date on which the borrowing of funds ceased.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
The Regulation entered into force on 28 February 2001.
BACKGROUND
The European Union is the largest economy in the world. It has a budget of over €1.2 trillion.
For more information, see:
‘The European Community’ on the European Commission's website.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EU), Euratom, No 608/2014 of 28 February 2014 on the System of European Community's European Communities's Own Resources and repealing Decisions 2007/434/EC, 2007/438/EC and 2007/437/EC (O J L 253, 7.6.2007, pp. 1-2)
Successive amendments to Regulation (Euratom) no 608/14 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
Council Decision 2007-436/EU, EC of 7 July 2007 on the EU's system of its own resources [Official Journal L 257 of 7.7.2007].
See consolidated version.
last update 07.10.2016



Summary 71:
Information on tyres: fuel efficiency, wet grip and external rolling noise
Information on tyre performance
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) 2018/858 on the labelling of tyres
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
 
It sets out minimum requirements for the information to be provided on tyres.
It aims to improve the visibility of tyres on the market and to reduce energy consumption.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to tyres of the category C3 (C3) and C4 (C4) tyres. It does not apply to tyres designed for use in severe snow conditions.
EU countries must ensure that the information on the tyre label and on the pictograms for other parameters, such as rolling resistance and wet grip, correspond to the documentation provided by the supplier based on test results and calculations.
Manufacturers and importers must:
make the information available on their websites and on their products’ product database;
ensure that the label and pictograms on the product database are accurate;
assist the European Commission and national authorities in carrying out their tasks under this regulation and the relevant delegated acts, including enforcement of the regulation;
provide the Commission with the information it needs to carry out its tasks.
National authorities must check that the classes for rolling resistance, wet-grip and external-rolling noise displayed on the label, as well as the pictures of the tyre’s, correspond with the documentation they have received from the supplier.
In addition, they must check whether the classifications and classifications are consistent with the specifications set out in the regulation.
Labelling requirements must be accurate.
The information must include:
a description of the tyres’ characteristics;
the class of tyre;
an indication of whether the tyre is a tyre for use on snow-covered roads;
a pictogram for the class of wet grip;
information on the class and class classification of the external-roll-noise class.
If a supplier has not ensured the accuracy of the label or the pictogram, it may be subject to a penalty.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLYORK?
It applies from 26 June 2018.
BACKGROUND
   
For more information, see:
‘Tyre label’ on the European Agency for Safety and Health at Work website.
* KEY TERMS
* Tyre label: a label on a vehicle that describes the characteristics of a tyre and its characteristics, including the class, class characteristics and class characteristics, of its tyres and the class characteristics of its components. It must be printed on the upper part of the vehicle and include the following information:
the tyre type and class specifications;
type of tyre, class, classification and class of tyres;
class of tyres, class specifications and class classes of components;
classes of components, classes and components of components of the product;
number of components and classes of parts;
characteristics of the components and parts of the products;
types of parts and components, including:
internal dividers;
materials;
name of the type of tyre and type of components.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 852/2018
26.6.2018
-
OJ L 127 of 26.6-28.2018.
RELATED ACTS
Commission Implementing Regulation (Euratom) 2020/740 of 26 June 2020 laying down rules for the marketing of motor vehicles and their trailers in the European Union (see summary).
Directive 2014/35/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 May 2014 on the marketing and advertising of motor vehicle and their trailer components and amending Council Regulation (EC) No 552/2014 on the use of energy efficiency in motor vehicles (See summary) (See amending act(s) (OJ C 202, 27.5.2014, pp. 1-2)
Directives 2014/34/EU and 2014/36/EU on the sale of motor cars and their equipment and repealing Council Directive 2014/33/EU (see amending acts) (see implementing acts) and Directive 2013/23/EU establishing a European Union Motor Vehicle Safety Agency (See implementing acts).
last update 04.10.2020



Summary 72:
EU Instrument for the Improving of Customs Control Equipment (EU-IIC) (2018-2020)
EU Implementing Regulation (EU) 2018-2020 — Fund for Improving Customs Control equipment (EU IIC)
SUMMARY OF:
Implementing Regulation(EU) 2021/444 establishing the EU Instrument for improving customs control equipment
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE IMPLEMENTING REGULATION?
It establishes a European Union Instrument (EUI) for improving the quality and effectiveness of customs controls.
It aims to improve the interoperability of EU programmes and instruments, and therefore its efficient use.
KEY POINTS
The Instrument supports the purchase or upgrade of the following:
customs control equipment* for the EU’s external borders;
equipment for the inspection and inspection of goods entering and exiting the EU;
measures for the protection of human health and the safety of persons and property;
implementing measures for the prevention and control of fraud.
Scope
The Fund supports the following actions:
the purchase or upgrading of the necessary equipment;
the assessment of needs based on actions carried out under the Customs 2020 programme established by the European Parliament and of the Council (17 or on the Customs programme for cooperation in the field of customs);
measures to prevent and control fraud;
monitoring and control measures to prevent, detect and control counterfeiting.
Requirements
EU countries must:
ensure that the equipment they provide meets the requirements laid down in the Instrument;
provide the Commission with all the necessary information, including:
a description of the equipment and its characteristics;
an estimate of the costs involved;
technical specifications for the equipment.
Implementation
The Commission must set up a coordination mechanism to ensure that the EU-funded actions are interoperable with other EU programmes, instruments and systems. It must also:
make the equipment available to the relevant national authorities;
assess the needs of EU countries;
draw up a report on the results of the actions;
exchange information with national authorities.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
The instrument entered into force on 1 January 2021.
BACKGROUND
The EU has adopted a number of measures to improve customs control, including measures to:
improve the quality of goods;
increase the effectiveness of border controls and security;
reduce the risk of counterfeiting;
improve border management.
For more information, see:
EU Customs Instrument (European Commission).
MAIN DOCUMENT
   
 
Commission Implementing Decision (EU, Euratom) 2019/444 of 11 March 2021 establishing the Fund for improving Customs control equipment (OJ L 31, 11.3.2019, pp. 1-2)
Successive amendments to Implementing Decisions (Euratom) 2018/444 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
                                   
  The European Commission Implementing Regulations (EU), 2018/2020 and 2018/2021 establishing the European Customs Instrument and implementing Regulations (EC) No 1294/2013 and (EC), No 1296/2014 and repealing Implementing Directives (EC, EC, EC and EFTA) No 552/2008 and (EU).
See consolidated version.
Regulation (EEC, EFTA, EC) No 652/2014 establishing the framework for cooperation between the European Union and its Member States in the fields of customs, border management and security, and establishing the Commission's Directorate-General for Customs and Border Protection (DG-CFSP). See consolidated version;
Council Regulation (EURO) No 749/2014 of 7 December 2014 establishing the Framework for cooperation and security between the EU and its member States in customs, and repealing Regulation (EC" No 651/2014" and repealing Directives 2006/8/EC, 2006/9/EC and 2006/10/EC. See consolidated copy.
last update 04.02.2021



Summary 73:
Electricity market: rules on competition and market access for energy consumers (REFERENCES)
Electricity markets for energy users
SUMMARY OF:
Directive (EU) 2019/943 on competition in the electricity market
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DIRECTIVE?
It aims to improve competition in electricity markets in the European Union (EU).
It recasts and repeals Directive 2004/36/EC.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The directive applies to:
the electricity market in the EU;
the transmission and distribution system operators;
energy consumers;
citizen energy communities.
It does not apply to the wholesale electricity market, which is regulated by the European Commission.
Regulatory authority
The EU’s energy market is governed by a single regulatory authority. This authority is independent of any market participants and comparison tool operators. It is responsible for:
establishing and maintaining a competitive market for electricity;
monitoring the market;
ensuring that market participants’ prices are fair and transparent;
providing market participants with information on electricity prices;
assisting market participants in the development and operation of market-based electricity price comparison tools.
Rules on market access and transparency
EU countries must ensure that:
electricity consumers are treated like active customers in accordance with point (e) of Article 15(2) of the directive;
they have the right to be directly informed of the offers and savings available on the competitive market, in particular relating to dynamic electricity price contracts;
market participants are provided with assistance to respond to and benefit from price-based offers.
they are guaranteed access to smart meters*;
there is no discrimination in terms of billing, billing or billing terms;
all consumers have access to the information they need to make informed decisions about their energy consumption.
The European Commission may decide to examine the case of a non-compliance of a regulatory authority with a decision.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS DIRECTIVE APPLY?
 
   
It applies from 1 January 2020. EU countries had to incorporate it into national law by 1 January 2021.
BACKGROUND
  * KEY TERMS
* Electricity market: a market where electricity is sold and traded on a regulated market.
* Distribution system operator: the body responsible for the operation of a transmission or distribution system.
MAIN DOCUMENT
 			
Commission Implementing Decision 2014/852/EU of 21 December 2014 on the recast and revision of Directives 2004/37/EC and 2004/38/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on the regulation of the energy market (recast) (OJ L 347, 28.12.2014, pp. 1-8)
last update 04.01.2020



Summary 74:
European Partnerships for High Performance Computing and Quantum Computing (EuroHPC) — rules for the management and operation of the EuroHPC Joint Undertaking (HPCJoint under Regulation (EC) No 552/2014)
European Partnership for High-Performance Computing and QAQS (Euro-HPC)* — rules on the management, operation and use of the European Partnerships
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 550/2014 establishing a European partnership for high-performance computing and quantum computing
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes a joint European partnership between the European Union (EU), the European Commission and the European Atomic Energy Community (Euratom) to acquire and operate world-class high performance computing and high-throughput quantum computing systems.
KEY POINTS
The purpose of the partnership is to:
contribute to the EU’s research and innovation (R&I) objectives;
support the development of new technologies and systems;
provide the European public and private sector partners with the necessary expertise and know-how to develop and operate these technologies;
ensure that the supercomputers it acquires are compatible with the requirements of the R&I programme, i.e. that they are capable of solving problems in the field of science and technology.
The joint undertaking is responsible for:
procuring and operating the high-performing supercomputing systems, including:
the Euro-High performance computing (Euro HPC supercomputer;
the mid-range supercomputer that is transferred to the joint undertaking;
supercomputers that are transferred to it;
quantum computing systems, such as the Euro-QAquarius;
advanced computing systems (e.g. quantum computing);
the advanced computing systems such as advanced computing and advanced computing.
Objectives
The European partnership aims at:
providing the EU with:
high performance computing systems and systems capable of performing high-quality scientific and technical tasks;
research and innovation activities in the fields of science, technology and innovation;
developing and using advanced computing technologies; and
advancing the use of advanced computing;
contributing to the development and implementation of advanced technologies.
In addition, the European partnership must also:
promote research, development and innovation in the areas covered by Horizon Europe;
facilitate the exchange of best practices and best practices in the area of research, innovation and technological development;
encourage the exchange and sharing of best practice and best practice in research and technology;
take into account the needs of the users of the systems and technologies it procures;
protect the intellectual property rights of the beneficiaries;
make sure that the beneficiaries receive fair and transparent compensation for the costs incurred by beneficiaries in implementing the actions.
Joint Undertaking
The Joint undertaking is governed by a governing board composed of representatives of the EU, the Euratom and the EEA. It is chaired by the Executive Director. The Governing Board meets at least twice a year. The Executive Director is assisted by the Infrastructure Advisory Group, which is composed of national experts and trainees from the participating countries.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULATIONS APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 January 2014.
BACKGROUND
The Horizon Europe programme is one of the most ambitious programmes in the EU and is funded by the EU budget.
For more information, see:
Horizon Europe (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* High performance computing: a system capable of providing the highest level of scientific and technological performance.
* Advanced computing systems: systems that can perform highly sophisticated tasks such as high-precision calculations, advanced computing, advanced processing and advanced simulation.
MAIN DOCUMENT
 
Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 555/2014 of 21 December 2014 establishing a Joint Undergoing for high performance computer and high throughput quantum computing under Horizon Europe (OJ L 347, 21.12.2014, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EEC) no 555/14 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 04.02.2016



Summary 75:
Paris Agreement: implementation of the EU’s climate-neutrality objective and climate-resilient development goal (Paris Agreement)
Paris agreement: implementation and adaptation
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) 2018/841 on the implementation and assessment of the Paris Agreement on climate change
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out EU-wide climate targets for the period 2030-2050.
It aims to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by at least 55% by 2030 compared to 1990 levels.
KEY POINTS
The EU is committed to stepping up efforts to tackle climate change and to delivering on the agreement adopted under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (the ‘Paris Agreement’).
The Paris Agreement sets out a long-term temperature goal in point (a) of Article 2(1) of the UNFCCC, and aims to strengthen the global response to the threat of climate change by increasing the ability to adapt to the adverse impacts resulting from climate change, by making finance flows consistent with a pathway towards low greenhouse gas emissions and climate resilience.
To achieve this objective, the EU and its Member States must:
reduce GHG emissions and removals from land use, land use and forestry in the 2030 climate and energy framework;
ensure that they are reduced economy-wide and domestically by a minimum of 55% compared to the 1990 levels;
adaptate to climate change.
The Commission must review relevant EU legislation in order to enable the achievement of the target set out of this regulation.
By 30 June 2021, the Commission will review relevant Union legislation to enable it to achieve the target and the climate neutrality objective.
This review will include:
a review of the greenhouse gas budget for the 2030–2050 period;
the assessment of progress towards the EU's climate neutrality objective;
measures to adapt the economy and the economy to the climate change impacts;
implementation of the climate-recovery goal.
FROM WHEN DOES THE REGULE APPLY?
The regulation applies from 30 June 2018.
BACKGROUND
The United Nations Climate Change Convention (UNFCCC) has been amended several times, most recently by Decision (EU, Euratom) 2020/852 on the inclusion of greenhouse gas emission reductions from land-use and land use-related activities in the EU climate framework.
For more information, see:
Paris Agreement (United Nations).
KEY TERMS
* Greenhouse gas emissions: greenhouse gases emitted by burning fossil fuels.
* Land-use emissions: emissions from the production, transport and storage of greenhouse gases (GHGs).
* Removals: emissions of GHGs emitted from land and land-based activities (i.e. from land, water and energy).
MAIN DOCUMENT
   
Commission Regulation (Euratom) No 852/2018 of 30 May 2018 on the application of the provisions of the Protocol on the Implementation and Assessment of the Agreement on the Climate-Resilience of the Parties to the Convention on the Paris Climate Change and repealing Regulation (EC) No 529/2013/EU (OJ L 156, 19.5.2018, pp. 1–5)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EU/842 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
 
  The United Nations Convention on climate Change (UNCC) 2020–852: Implementation of the 2020–2030 Climate Framework Decision (Official Journal C 202, 21.6.2020)
Council Decision (CFSP) 2021/1119 of 21 December 2021 on the addition of the objective of achieving a climate neutral climate by 2050 to the EU 2020-2030 Energy Framework Decision and repealing Council Decision (EFSP) No 596/2014/EU.
last update 04.01.2021



Summary 76:
EU4Health Programme
EU4health Programme
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) 2019/852 — EU4Health programme
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
   
 
It sets out the objectives and actions of the EU4health programme, which aims to improve the health and well-being of people in the European Union (EU).
KEY POINTS
Scope
The programme is designed to:
improve the quality of life of people living in the EU;
promote the prevention and control of communicable diseases;
provide information to the general public and to specific groups of people or professionals, in order to prevent and respond to these diseases.
The objectives of the programme are:
to improve the quality and effectiveness of health care services;
to reduce the burden of infectious diseases and to improve access to health care;
raise awareness of the importance of preventive and curative measures;
increase the effectiveness of the health care system;
strengthen cooperation between EU countries and non-governmental organisations (NGOs);
raise public health awareness;
improve access to information;
encourage the exchange of information and best practice in the field of public health;
contribute to the prevention, control and response to communicable disease.
Objectives and actions
To achieve its objectives, the programme supports the following:
information activities:
health education and awareness-raising activities;
information campaigns;
health promotion;
education and training;
exchange of health professionals;
participation of the general population;
informative activities.
the general public of the specific objectives;
research and development programmes;
emergency support operations.
In addition, actions are also designed to promote gender equality between men and women and to promote equal opportunities for women and men in the health sector.
Specific objectives include:
promoting the use of the internet and social media;
improving the availability of health information to individuals;
raising public awareness about the importance and importance of preventing and responding to disease;
supporting research and dissemination of information on communicable and infectious diseases, including in the context of the European Commission’s work in this field;
developing and disseminating information and training programmes for health care professionals and health care workers;
establishing a network of experts and experts in the area of health and social care.
Financing
The budget for the programme amounts to €1.2 billion. This includes:
€1.1 billion from the EU budget for 2019-2023;
€500,000 from the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) for the period 2021-2025;
EU funds from the EPPO for the duration of the Programme.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULATIONS APPLY?

  The regulation applies from 1 January 2019.
BACKGROUND
 The EU4 health programme is part of the broader EU4 programme to improve human health. It is funded by the European budget for health.
For more information, see:
‘EU4 Health Programme’ on the Commission's website.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 852/2019 of 15 January 2019 establishing the EU 4 Health Programme (OJ L 77I, 20.1.2019, pp. 1-2)
Successive amendments to Regulation (Euratom) 2018/939 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
 			
	
Council Decision (EU), Euratom of 27 November 2018 on the implementation of Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 on the provision of emergency support within the Union for the protection of human health and of the environment, and repealing Council Decision (EURO) No 282/2014 on the establishment of a European Community Emergency Response Mechanism (EEC) (Official Journal L 81, 28.12.2018, p. 1)
last update 04.02.2021



Summary 77:
Cultural strand of the European Union’s 2020-2027 programme
Cinematic strand: European Union programme
SUMMARY OF:
Decision (EU) 2020/2027 on the continuation of the ‘Culture strand’ programme
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DECISION AND THE PROGRAMMING?
The programme aims to:
support the development of European cultural policies;
promote the creation of a culture-based society;
encourage the exchange of knowledge and experience between cultures;
contribute to the sustainable development of the creative and creative sectors in Europe.
KEY POINTS
Objectives
Culture is key to strengthening inclusive and cohesive communities. It plays an essential role in society and contributes to social cohesion. It is also a key driver of economic and social development.
The objectives of the programme include:
encouraging cultural diversity;
creating an environment conducive to creativity and creativity;
supporting the creation and dissemination of new and innovative forms of expression;
raising awareness of the importance of culture in society.
Programme objectives
Cultural policies are based on the following principles:
promoting the diversity of cultures and languages of the EU;
strengthening the role of women and minorities in society, in particular through the promotion of women's participation in the creative sector;
increasing the visibility and visibility of women in the arts and culture;
improving the quality of life of artists and creative professionals;
developing the capacity of artists, performers and creative entrepreneurs;
enhancing the visibility of creative industries in the EU countries.
Promoting cultural diversity.
Specific priorities
The priorities are:
creativity and innovation;
exchange of information and experience;
the promotion of creativity and innovation.
In addition, the programme supports transnational projects for collaboration, networking, mobility and internationalisation, including through residency programmes, touring, events, exhibitions and festivals.
Projects
A project may be awarded a Seal of Excellence label as defined in point (45) of Article 2 of the Common Provisions Regulation for 2021–2027 under the Programme where it complies with the following cumulative conditions:
it has been assessed in a call for proposals under the programme;
it meets the minimum quality requirements of that call; and
it cannot be financed under that call for proposal due to budgetary constraints.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS DECISION APPLY?
It applies from 1 January 2021.
BACKGROUND
The ‘2014-2020 Programme’ is part of the broader ‘EU 2020-2020’ package of EU policies and programmes designed to promote culture and creativity.
For more information, see:
‘The EU 2020 programme’ on the European Commission's website.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Decision 2014/2021/EU of 21 December 2014 on the conclusion of the 2014-2020 programme.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
Council Regulation (EC) No 596/2011/EU establishing the European Heritage Label and the European Capitals of Culture (OJ L 347, 29.12.2011, pp. 1–5)
Council Framework Decision (EU, Euratom) 2021/2023 on the establishment of a European Heritage Day and establishing a European Capitals and European prizes in the areas of contemporary, rock and pop music, literature, heritage and architecture, and establishing European Capitals for Culture.
Council Resolution of 25 March 2021 on the renewal and expansion of the Programme for the European Year of European Heritage (2014–2020).
last update 14.02.2022



Summary 78:
European Institute of Innovation and Technology (EIT) 2021-2027 (SIA 2021-2020)
European institute of innovation and technology (Eit) 2021 - 2020
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) 2021/695 establishing the European Institute of Innovations and Technology
Sustainable Innovation and Entrepreneurship 2020-2021 — Strategic Agenda for the EIT
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION AND THE SIA?
The regulation establishes the strategic objectives and the priorities of the European institute of innovative and technological development (EIIT) for the seven-year period from 2021 to 2027.
The SIA sets out the priority fields and the strategy for the institute’s activities.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The EIT is open to countries (and regions in those countries) with modest and moderate innovation performance as classified in the European Innovation Scoreboard (EIS) to engage in knowledge triangle activities as part of a Knowledge Triangle (KIC) community. Through the RIS, the EIC has expanded its activities across Europe and offers opportunities for countries (or regions in countries) that have moderate and moderate EU innovation performance to participate in research and innovation activities in the knowledge triangle.
EIT activities include:
supporting the innovation and entrepreneurial capacity of higher education institutions (HEIs) and research institutes (RIs);
promoting the knowledge-based economy (KIs) of research and development (RDI);
creating a knowledge triangle ecosystem;
developing and disseminating innovative products and services;
agriculture;
research and innovation (IoD);
enhancing knowledge and entrepreneurship;
creativity and entrepreneurship.
Programmes
The aim to:
enhance the capacity of HEIs and RDI institutions;
support the research- and innovation-based economies of Europe;
encourage the development of innovative products, services and technologies;
promote the development and dissemination of knowledge and technology;
provide a platform for the exchange of best practices and best practices;
facilitate the sharing of best practice and best practice;
increase the visibility and visibility of innovation in Europe.
RIS activities
In addition, KICs must:
develop and implement innovative research, development, innovation and entrepreneurship strategies;
ensure that their research activities are open to the public, private and public sectors;
create and disseminate information and awareness-raising campaigns;
make use of the resources and expertise of the RIS;
organise and implement research projects, including research projects and research programmes, in line with the European Research and Innovation (R&I) Framework Programme (ERP) and the EU Innovation Strategy (RIS);
develop, implement and promote research and technological innovation (R & T) programmes and projects;
establish and implement knowledge-driven research and entrepreneurship programmes, including R & T programmes, and develop and implement R&T programmes, projects and projects in the areas covered by the R&I Framework Programme.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
The European Institute for Innovation and Technological Development has applied since 1 January 2021.
BACKGROUND
The EU has established a European Innovation Institute since 2011. Its main objective is to contribute to the creation of a European innovation economy. It is based on the EIS, which is designed to improve the quality of life of people and improve the competitiveness of the economy.
For more information, see:
European Innovation Institute (European Commission).
MAIN DOCUMENT
 
    барска гранда  
Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2019/852 of 21 December 2019 establishing the Strategic Agenda 2021-2019 for the European Institutions of Innovation (EII) (OJ L 347, 21.12.2019, pp. 1-2)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EEU) 2019-2019 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
  Барган гланскова 
Communication from the Commission to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee, the Committee of the Regions and the Committee on the Functioning of the EU — Strategic Framework for Innovation (COM(2019) 696 final, 31.1.2019)
Commission communication on the implementation of the Strategic Innovation and Technologies Strategy (SIS) 2021–2027 — Strategic objectives and priorities for European institutes of innovation (SICs) (SIT) (COM (2019) 797 final, 1.2.2019).
last update 04.02.2021



Summary 79:
Aromatised wine products — description, description, presentation, labelling and protection of geographical indications of certain aromatised wines and spirit drinks (Regulation (EU) No 1169/2011)
Aroma-based wine products: description and presentation
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It lays down rules on the definition, description*, presentation*, labelling*, protection and marketing of certain aromatic wine products*.
It aims to ensure that the products marketed in the EU are marketed correctly and that consumers can easily identify them.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to:
alcoholic wine products;
alcohol-based spirit drinks;
sparkling wine;
wine-based spirits.
It does not apply to spirits, sparkling wine or wine-based beer.
The regulations cover:
wine, sparkling wines and sparkling wines;
spirits;
whiskey;
vodka;
pomegranate juice;
bourbon;
coconut water;
white wine.
Labelling
The products must bear the following information:
the alcohol content;
the alcoholic strength by volume;
a description of the alcohol;
an indication of the wine’s alcohol content.
An alcoholic beverage not fulfilling the requirements laid down in this regulation must not be described, presented or marketed in a way that implies that it is an alcoholic beverage.
In addition to this information, the product must be accompanied by a description and a description of its alcohol content, which must be expressed as invert sugar.
the product must also include the alcohol content by volume and the alcoholic strength.
A description and description must include the alcoholic denomination and the sales denomination.
If a product does not fulfil the requirements of more than one sales denomination, the use of only one of those sales denominations is authorised, except where Annex II provides otherwise.
EU countries and the European Commission must notify each other of any information necessary for the application of this regulation and for complying with the international obligations concerning the aromatisation of wine products.
Protection
The European Commission may, by means of implementing acts, on its own initiative, decide to cancel the protection of existing geographical designations referred to in the regulation if they do not comply with point (3) of Article 2.
Existing geographical indications
The Commission may adopt delegated acts to amend or derogate from this regulation.
References
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Regulation(EU) 2015/1169
28.3.2015
-
OJ L 127 of 28.3-2016
RELATED ACTS
Commission Implementing Regulation (EC) No 110/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 January 2008 laying down specific rules for the definition and presentation of alcohol-based and spirit-based products and repealing Council Regulation (EEC) no 1576/89 on the classification and description of alcoholic beverages.
Directive 2000/13/EC on the marketing of spirit drinks and amending Council Regulations (EC, Euratom) No 1601/91, (EC), No 2232/96 and (EC).
Commission Delegated Regulation (EU), Euratom and Euratom Implementing Regulations (EU, Euromonitor) No 552/2014 on the description and labelling of alcoholic drinks and on the protection thereof.
Council Regulation (European Parliament and Council Directive 2000/12/EC of 15 December 2000 on the category of alcoholic wines and on wine-related products, amending Directive 2001/23/EC (OJ C 202, 31.12.2000, pp. 1-2)
Commission Decision 2001/24/EC — description of a spirit based wine and on a spirit drink.
Commission Regulation (Euroatom) 2016/852 of 28 March 2016 laying down general rules on a category of alcohol based wine, on a spirits-based product and repealing Commission Regulation 2001/22/EC.
last update 04.02.2020



Summary 80:
Fishing quotas for certain species of fish in the EU’s outermost waters
Fisheries quotas for various species of fishes in the outermost seas
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 1380/2013 on fishing quotas for fish stocks
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out EU-wide fishing quotas* for certain fish stocks* in EU waters.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to:
fishing quotas:
for certain species* of fish (e.g. bluefin tuna, swordfish, molluscs and swordfish) in EU and international waters;
fisheries for certain types of crustaceans, such as swordfish;
fish caught in the Faroe Islands, Greenland, Iceland and Norway;
for some species of sharks caught in certain areas of the North Atlantic Ocean.
It does not apply to the following species:
whiting (Euphausia superba);
marine mussels (Eucalyptus, mussels, skates and skates);
dolphine mussels;
spotted mussels.
EU countries have exclusive access to the quota pool until 31 March 2020.
Specific rules apply to certain species and categories of fish, including:
bluefin tuna
swordfish
molluscan mussels
swordfishing for swordfish
marine pelagic mussels and scallops.
European seabass
European pelagic fish.
Fishing limits
The European Union (EU countries must:
limit the quantities of fish they can take in their respective waters, in accordance with the rules laid down in Annex II to the regulation;
not exceed the quotas set out in Annex III;
limit catches of certain species;
allow certain species to be caught only in the areas specified by SPRFMO.
The EU countries must ensure that fish stocks are not overfished, and that the quantities taken are not exceeded.
FROM WHEN DOES THE REGULE APPLY?
 
   
It has applied since 1 May 2020. EU countries had to incorporate it into national law by 1 May 2021.
BACKGROUND
The CCAMLR Convention (Convention on the Conservation of Atlantic Marine Living Resources (CCAMLR) is a multiannual agreement between the European Commission and the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and the International Maritime Organization (CAMLR). It aims to conserve and restore the diversity of marine life in the Atlantic Ocean and to encourage sustainable fishing.
For more information, see:
‘Protecting the Atlantic’ on the Commission's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Fishing quota: the amount of fish that can be caught in each EU country's quota pool for a given year. It is divided into quotas for:
target species, i.e. fish stocks;
catch limit: the number of fish allowed in each quota pool;
total catch limit (TAC): the total quantity of fish permitted in each TAC.
MAIN DOCUMENT
 			
Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2020/1380 of 14 April 2020 on the fishing quotas applicable to fish stocks (OJ L 10, 1.5.2020, pp. 1-17)
Successive amendments to Regulation (Euratom) No 2013/2013 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
Regulations (EU and EFTA) No 596/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 on the EU fishing quotas (Cod quotas) for the period from 1 January 2020 to 31 March 2021 (Cod quota) (Cod Regulation) and (EU/EFTA) 2020-2021 (Fishing quota pool) (cod quota pool).
Commission Implementing Regulation (EC) No 696/2014 of 12 December 2014 on the European Union fishing quotas and on the management of fisheries in the North Sea (Cod regulation).
See consolidated version.
last update 14.02.2020



Summary 81:
Emergency macro-financial assistance to Ukraine
Emergency macro–financial assistance for Ukraine
SUMMARY OF:
Decision (EU) 2018/852 — emergency macro–economic assistance for the country of Ukraine
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DECISION?
   
 
It provides for the European Union to provide financial assistance to the government of Ukraine for the period 2018-2022.
KEY POINTS
The decision authorises the EU to provide up to €3.5 billion in emergency macro‑financial assistance (EMFAs) to the country.
The EU’s EMFAs are subject to economic policy conditions, to be set out in a memorandum of understanding (MOU) with the Ukrainian authorities. The MOU sets out the economic policy and financial conditions to be followed by the European Commission. These include:
the establishment of a sustainable external financing situation for Ukraine;
continuing central bank independence and a flexible exchange rate;
safeguarding financial stability while recovering the costs from bank resolutions;
promoting governance and anti-corruption measures to preserve and deepen recent gains.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS DECISION APPLY?
It entered into force on 1 September 2018.
BACKGROUND
The crisis in Ukraine led to the EU providing emergency financial assistance in the form of a financial package of €2.8 billion in loans to the Ukrainian government. The assistance was designed to cover the balance-of-payments needs of the country until the end of 2022.
For more information, see:
‘Emergency financial assistance’ on the European External Action Service's website
’.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Decision (EC) No 852/18.7.2018
-
OJ L 248 of 1.9.2018.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
  The European Commission adopts:
Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 1073/2013 concerning the implementation of the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) investigations conducted by the EU and Ukraine (OJL 73 of 30.2.3.2013)
Council Regulation (EU), Euratom and Euratom: Implementing the European anti-fraud strategy for Ukraine (EU-EU Anti-Corruption Office) (EU/2020/1).
Council Recommendation of 21 December 2014 on the implementation by the Commission of the Memorandum of Understanding concerning the European Economic and Financial Assistance for the Republic of Ukraine (EMAFE) (EC-2020/2).
last update 04.01.2020



Summary 82:
Management, conservation and control measures applicable in the Convention area of the International Commission for the Conservation of Atlantic Tunas (ICCAT) area
Management and conservation measures applicable on the Mediterranean swordfish
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) 2017/2107 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 November 2017 laying down management, conservation, control measures for the conservation, management and control of the Mediterranean Swordfish
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It lays down measures to protect and conserve the Mediterranean Sea swordfish (Swordfish) species.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to fishing vessels 15 metres in length overall and below flying an EU country’s flag.
It does not apply to:
recreational fisheries;
fishing vessels of less than 15 metres;
recreational fishing vessels of more than 10 metres; and
fishermen engaged in commercial fishing activities.
EU countries must:
design and implement a scientific monitoring approach to collect the information on the activities of pelagic longline vessels of 15 metres or below flying their flag;
ensure that these vessels comply with the rules laid down in the regulation;
issue their national scientific observers with an official identification document.
Monitoring
The EU country concerned must design and implement:
a scientific monitoring system to collect information on:
the fishing activities of fishing vessels;
the number and type of fishing gear used;
catches of swordfish;
records of the number of catches;
of the number and types of vessels.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMIMPORTATION OF INFORMATION
Each EU country must send quarterly reports to the European Commission of all catches of Mediterranean sword fish made by authorised vessels flying its flag, unless such information is sent on a monthly basis. These reports must include:
categories of fish caught;
type and quantity of fish;
quantity of fish landed and transshipment;
number of vessels registered in the EU;
total number of vessels in the fishery;
frequency of catches and quantities of fish transhipment.
The Commission must ensure that:
all fishing vessels flying the EU flag are registered in accordance with the ICCAT rules;
all catches are recorded and reported to the Commission on a quarterly basis;
there is a limit on the total number of fish that can be caught in a given year. This limit is set out in Annex II of the regulation.
In addition, EU countries must ensure:
monitoring measures are in place to prevent, detect and control illegal fishing activities;
monitor and report on the fishing gear and equipment used; and, where appropriate, the number, type and quantity used.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
 
The convention entered into force on 1 January 2018.
BACKGROUND
   
  IUU (International Union for Unlawful Trade in Tunas)
The European Union is party to the International Convention on the Conservation and Management of Tunas.
For more information, see:
‘The EU and the Swordfish’ (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Swordfish: a species of fish found in the Atlantic Ocean.
* Longline: a type of longline used to catch swordfish.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EU, EU Member States) No 2107/2017 laying down Management, Conservation, Conservation and Control measures applicable to the Convention Area of the ICTC Convention of 15 December 2013 on the conservation and management of the Atlantic Swordfish and repealing Regulation (EC) No 1224/2009 (OJ L 315, 30.11.2017, pp. 1-3)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EEC, EEC) 2018/3107 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 04.02.2021



Summary 83:
Multiannual financial framework (MFF) for the period 2014-2020
Multiannial financial framework for the year 2014-20
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 596/2014 establishing a multiannual Financial Framework
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes a European Union (EU) Multiannual Financing Framework.
It aims to ensure that the EU’s financial resources are used effectively and efficiently.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The MFF covers the period from 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2023.
The framework covers:
the general budget of the EU;
the European cohesion policy envelopes (e.g. the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund, the Asylum and Migration Fund and the Internal Security Fund);
the common foreign and security policy (CFSP) and the common security and defence policy (CSDP) envelopes.
Specific instruments
The European Union Solidarity Fund (EU-SDF) provides financial assistance to EU countries in the event of a natural or man-made disaster. It may be mobilised only in relation to an amending or annual budget.
In exceptional cases and if the remaining financial resources available in the EU Solidarity fund in the year of occurrence of the disaster, as defined in the relevant basic act, are not sufficient to cover the amount of assistance considered necessary by the European Parliament and the Council, the Commission may propose that the difference be financed through the annual amounts available for the following year.
Emergency Aid Reserve
The Emergency Aid Reserve is intended to allow for a rapid response to specific aid requirements of third countries following events which are not covered by the MFF. It can be used in the case of:
natural or manmade disasters;
humanitarian emergencies;
international crises;
terrorism;
climate change;
natural disasters.
Contingency Margin
The regulation sets a contingency margin of 2 % of the total appropriations for payments required for the current and future financial years. This margin must not result in a call-in rate for own resources that exceeds the own resources ceiling set in accordance with Decision 2007/436/EC, Euratom.
Rights and obligations of EU countries
EU countries have the right to participate in the European Investment Bank (EIB).
The EIB has the following rights and obligations:
participation in the EIB;
recourse to the Contingency margin;
reimbursement of payments made by EU countries;
cooperation with the International Monetary Fund (IMF);
reciprocal access to the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF);
recovery of costs incurred under the ERDF.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
The Regulation entered into force on 1 January 2018.
BACKGROUND
The EU is the largest economy in the world and has the largest budget in terms of gross domestic product (GDP).
For more information, see:
‘The European Fund for Strategic Investments’ on the European Commission's website.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EC), Euratom, Euratox, Euronews, Euronext, Euromonitor, Eurobudget, Euromodal and Euratom Financial Regulation (OJ L 183, 1.1.2014, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EEC) no 596 have been incorporated into the original document. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
Council Decision 2008/852/EC of 27 November 2008 establishing a European Fund and establishing a common framework for strategic investments and establishing common rules on the management of the European Fund, and repealing Council Decision 2004/853/EC on the coordination of the financial resources of the Union.
last update 14.02.2020



Summary 84:
European Maritime and Fisheries Fund (EMFAF)
European Maritime & Fisheries Fund
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) 2021/1060 establishing the European Maritime and Fishery Fund
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes the EU’s Mediterranean and Fisheries Facility (EMF) and lays down the priorities of the EMF, its budget and the specific rules for providing EU funding, complementing the general rules applicable to the EMFAF.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The EMF is responsible for:
fishing and aquaculture in the EU;
monitoring and evaluation of the EU fishing fleet;
investment in the fishing fleet.
EMF budget
The regulation establishes a budget of EUR 6.108 million for the period 2021-2027. This budget is divided between the EU Member States and the European Economic and Social Fund (EEF), the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) and the Fund for Agriculture and Rural Development (FARE). The EMF also supports research, innovation and investments on board EU fishing vessels.
Specific objectives
The main objectives of EMF are to:
promote the sustainable use of EU fishing resources;
protect the marine environment;
improve the quality of fish protein produced in the Union with high quality standards and available for consumers at affordable prices;
contribute to food security and nutrition;
encourage the sustainable development in the European fishing industry;
support regional and local development.
Funding
EU Member States must ensure that EMF projects are compatible with the conservation objectives of fish stocks and the sustainable fishing practices of the CFP (the Common Fisheries Policy (CFP).
Specific conditions for EMFisheries are governed by the following conditions:
the EMF must:
be based in an area where there is a high level of sustainable fishing;
be managed by EU countries;
not contribute to overcapacity or overfishing;
take into account regional and/or local challenges, as appropriate, and may identify intermediate bodies in accordance with Article 71(3) of Regulation (Euratom 71(2) of the EEF;
have a minimum budget of at least EUR 6 108 million.
Eligible projects
The following projects may be supported by EMF funding:
research and innovation projects;
fisheries-related research and development projects.
Investment in fishing fleet
The European Union Member States are responsible for ensuring that investments in fishing fleets are:
consistent with the objectives of the common fisheries policy (CPF);
contributing to the sustainable management of fishing stocks;
promoting sustainable fishing techniques;
providing information and communication to the public;
ensuring that investment in fishing vessels is compatible with CFP objectives;
developing sustainable fishing methods and techniques.
Other EMF activities
The Member States may support certain other EMF operations, such as:
scientific research and technological development;
research on sustainable fishing technologies;
scientific and technological innovation;
training of fishery personnel;
the establishment of research centres and research institutes;
exchange of best practices and best practices in the field of fisheries;
information, communication and publicity campaigns.
EU funding
Member States must also ensure that:
investments made by the Member States do not contribute to the over-exploitation of EU fish stocks, and that they do not result in over-fishing, over-harvesting or underfishing of fish products;
there is no risk that investments will contribute to an over-abundance of fish stock or to an increase in fishing capacity.
The Commission must ensure:
that EMF investments do not increase overcapacity;
that investments are not likely to contribute to or contribute to excessive fishing stocks.
In addition, Member States have to ensure that investments are in line with the principles of sustainable management and sustainable fishing.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
The Regulation has applied since 1 January 2021.
BACKGROUND
The EU is a member of the Convention on the Functioning of the European Union (CFSP). The CFP is the cornerstone of the Lisbon strategy for the EU and the EU fisheries policy.
For more information, see:
‘Fishery and Aquaculture’ on the European Commission's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Overfishing: a phenomenon that occurs when fishing stocks are overfished or under-fished.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EC) No 596/2011/2021 of 21 December 2011 establishing the Mediterranean and Faroe Islands Fund and laying down the general principles for the European Fisheries Fund.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force
Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member State
Official Journal
Decision No 597/2010/EU
-
OJ L



Summary 85:
Convention on the Conservation and Management of Straddling Fish Stocks and Highly Migratory Fish Species (CMSS)
Conservation and management of straddling fish stocks and highly migratory fish species
SUMMARY OF:
Decision 98/392/EC on the conclusion, on behalf of the European Union, of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and the Agreement for the Implementation of that Convention relating to the conservation and management on the conservation of species under the Convention
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DECISION AND THE AGREEMENT?
The decision approves the EU’s participation in the UN Convention on International Trade in Tariffs and Trade in Fish (CITTF) and the agreement for the implementation of the CMSS.
The agreement aims to:
contribute to the long-term conservation and sustainable management of species of fish and to the sustainable use of their resources;
promote international cooperation in the field of fisheries;
ensure that the International Association for the Conservation of Atlantic Tunas (IATTC) is established.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The convention applies to fishing for:
whitetip sharks and bluefin tuna;
sea turtles;
marine mammals;
whales and porpoises;
fishing gear and equipment;
seabirds.
EU countries must:
carry on-board and, when sea turtle interactions occur, employ the necessary equipment (e.g. de-hookers, line cutters and scoop nets) for the prompt release of sea turtles incidentally caught;
when the majority of hooks fish at depths shallower than 100 metres, employ one of the following two mitigation measures: large circle hooks or the use only of finfish for bait;
report any interactions to the national authorities.
Fisheries must report annually by 15 June for the preceding year on their implementation of Article 16 and the Guidelines of the Food and Agriculture Organisation of the UN to Reduce Sea Turtle Mortality in Fishing Operations (2009) (18) for turtles, including information collected on interaction with turtles during fishing activities managed under the convention. The Commission must forward that information to the IATTC Secretariat by 30 June.
Member States must also:
report annually to the Commission on the number of discards and releases of whitetip shark, indicating the status (dead or alive), including those released under paragraph 2.3 of the convention;
record, inter alia, through the observer programmes, the number and status of sea turtle discards, as well as the status of any sea turtles accidentally caught.
They must also report to the European Commission on:
the number and type of fishing gear used;
the type and quantity of fish caught, and the type of gear used, in accordance with the Convention;
any interactions between vessels and turtles.
Monitoring and reporting
The Convention requires Member States:
to:
monitor and report the number, type, quantity and nature of catches and discards of sharks;
to report on interactions between fishing gear and sea turtles; and
to inform the International Maritime Rescue Coordination Centre (IMRCC) of any interactions that occur.
In addition, Member States must ensure that:
fisheries are equipped with the appropriate equipment to detect and respond to interactions between sea turtles and fishing gear;
all fishing gear, equipment and equipment used on board vessels must be in line with international standards;
ships and fishing equipment must be equipped with a satellite-based monitoring system to detect, report and report any interactions with sea turtles that occur;
if a vessel encounters a sea turtle, it must immediately notify the appropriate maritime rescue coordination centre, observer provider and the International Transport Workers’ Federation (ETF) to ensure that it is immediately notified and provided with a report on actions undertaken.
Each Member State must also take the necessary measures to inspect and verify the well sealed for the first time.
FROM WHEN DO THE DECISIONS APPLY?
 
    ‘The Decision and the Agreement’ entered into force on 1 July 1998.
BACKGROUND
The EU is a contracting party to the CITTF.
For more information, see:
International Convention on Tariff and Trade-Related Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CATTF) (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Whitefin tuna: the largest fish in the world and the most migratory.
* Bluefin tuna.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Decision 98/391/EC of 10 December 1982 on the approval, on the basis of a proposal from the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 1982, of a United Nations convention on the law of the sea and the implementation thereof (OJ L 348, 30.12.1982, pp. 1-2)
Successive amendments to Council Decision 96/938/EC have been incorporated into the original text. This



Summary 86:
Delegated acts: EU-wide dialogue between the European Parliament and the Council on the implementation of EU legislation
Delegating acts: European Union dialogue between EU institutions
SUMMARY OF:
Agreement on Delegated Acts
Decision (EU) 2016/852 — conclusion of the agreement on delegated acts
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE AGREEMENT AND THE DECISION?
The agreement aims to ensure that delegated or implementing acts are implemented within the limits of the EU’s legal instruments.
The decision concludes the agreement with the European Union (EU).
KEY POINTS
The European Parliament (European Parliament) and Council (Council) have the power to adopt delegated acts. These acts enable the Commission to adopt EU legislation. The delegated acts are designed to:
improve the efficiency of the legislative process;
ensure that EU legislation is compatible with EU law;
provide the Commission with all the necessary expertise and information it needs to implement EU legislation;
contribute to the development of EU law.
Scope
The delegated acts may be adopted by the Commission or by the EU countries’ competent authorities. They may include:
basic acts;
implementing acts; and
legislative acts.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
The EU delegated acts entered into force on 1 January 2018.
BACKGROUND
 
The Council and the Commission have adopted a number of delegated acts in recent years, including:
Regulation (EC) No 552/2013 on the EU delegated act;
Regulations (EC, Euratom) No 6/2013 and (EU-wide delegated acts);
Regulatory (EU), Euratom and Euratom-related delegated acts (EU delegated acts).
For more information, see:
EU delegated and implementing acts (European Commission).
* KEY TERMS
* Delegating act: a delegated act adopted by an EU country on behalf of another EU country.
* Implementing act: an act adopted under the urgency procedure.
MAIN DOCUMENTS
   
Agreements on delegated* and implementing* acts (OJ L 131, 13.3.2016, pp. 1-2)
Council Decision (EU, Eurat) 2016-852 of 13 October 2016 on the conclusion of an Agreement on delegated * acts
Council Regulation (EU Euratom, Euram) No 608/2013 of 21 December 2013 on the European delegated act (Euratom).
RELATED DOCUMENT
Communication from the European Commission to the Council, European Parliament, European Economic and Social Committee, the Committee of the Regions and the Committee on the Functioning of the European External Action Service: Delegation of delegated* acts to the EU (COM(2013) 596 final of 21.12.2013).
Council Resolution of 21 November 2013 on delegated or implementable acts (EURAM).
Last updated: 27.02.2014



Summary 87:
Citizens’ initiative procedure: rules on the registration of proposed citizens’ initiatives (CIP)
Citizen’s initiative procedure — rules on registering and publishing proposed citizens' initiatives
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 552/2013 on the registering and publication of citizens' initiative procedures
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
   
It establishes a procedure for the registration, publication and dissemination of proposals for legal acts of the European Union (EU) for the purpose of implementing the Treaties similar to the right conferred on the European Parliament under Article 225 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU (TFEU) and on the Council under Article 241 TFEU.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to proposals for a legal act of the Union for the purposes of:
improving the functioning of the internal market in goods and services in the EU;
protecting consumers’ rights and fundamental freedoms;
promoting the protection of intellectual property rights;
ensuring a high level of protection of personal data.
It does not apply to:
proposals for the implementation of EU laws, regulations or administrative acts;
the implementation of treaties, regulations and administrative acts adopted by the EU countries;
reports to the European Commission;
actions adopted by EU countries.
Requirements for registration and publication
Citizens must submit a proposal to the Commission with a description of the objectives of the initiative and the contact details of the organisers.
The initiative must include:
a description of its aims and objectives;
an estimate of the resources required to carry out the initiative;
information on the sources of support and funding for the initiative.
the contact details and contact details for the organisers
the names, postal addresses and e-mail addresses of the contact persons.
Organisers must:
register the initiative with the Commission and publish it on their website;
provide, for the register and where appropriate on the website, regularly updated information on their sources of funding.
Registration of a proposal
The proposal must meet the following conditions:
it must be submitted by the organisers:
in writing, in no more than 500 characters;
in a language easily understood by the Commission
in the format set out in Annex II;
within 5 working days of receiving the proposal
inform the Commission of its intention to act on the initiative, in the form of a request inviting it to act;
give the Commission a copy of the proposal.
If the Commission considers that the initiative does not meet the above conditions, it may refuse to act. The Commission must inform the organisers of the reasons for its decision and inform them of the consequences of their decision.
In addition, the Commission must provide the organisers with information and informal advice on how to register and publish the initiative on its website. It must also provide information on the information contained in its online register.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
It applies from 1 January 2014. EU countries had to incorporate it into national law by 1 January 2016.
BACKGROUND
 
CITIZEN’S INITIATIVE PROCEDURE
The CIP is one of a number of legal instruments designed to facilitate the exchange of information between the EU and non-EU countries in order to improve the quality of life of citizens.
For more information, see:
‘Citizens' initiative procedure’ on the Commission's website.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 550/2013 of 21 December 2013 on the Registration and Publication of Citizens’ Initiative procedures (OJ L 183, 1.1.2014, pp. 1-2)
Successive amendments to Regulation (Euratom), Euratom have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
 			
Commission Implementing Decision 2014/852/EU of 27 November 2014 on the application of the Regulation on the Register of Citizens' Initiative procedures and on its publication on the EU's website of the online register of proposed initiatives (Official Journal C 202, 28.11.2014)
Commission implementing Decision (EU, Europol) 2015/856 of 28 November 2015 on the use of the information provided by the Organising Committee for the preparation of a citizens' Initiative and on publication of the register of proposals on the basis of that initiative on the site of the Commission website. This decision repeals Decision (EURO) No 853/2013.
last update 04.01.2016



Summary 88:
Pesticides — plant protection products (Plant Protection Regulation)
Plants Protection Regulation — Plant Protection Regulation
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 552/2009 — EU statistics on the placing on the market and use of pesticides which are plant protection product
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes a common framework for the systematic production of Community statistics on placing on market and the use of certain pesticides.
It aims to reduce the risks associated with pesticide use.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to:
plant protection products;
molluscicides;
plant growth regulators;
plant growth regulators.
EU countries must report to the European Union (EU) Statistical Office (Eurostat) on:
the number of pesticides on sale and on the EU market;
the quantity of substances on sale;
pesticides used in the EU.
Reporting measures
The Regulation sets out a reporting measure:
a reporting measure in kilograms of substances.
The reporting measure must be expressed in kilograms.
Annex III of the regulation defines the area to be treated and the number of substances to be covered.
Each EU country must submit a quality report to Eurostat within 15 months of the end of the reference year.
A quality report must be sent to the Commission every 5 years on the quality of the data collected.
In addition, EU countries must provide Eurostat with a report on the quantity of pesticides used in their territory.
This report must include:
an estimate of the quantities of substances used;
a description of the methods used to collect the data;
information on the number and quantities of pesticides placed on sale, on the quantities used and on their use;
an indication of the number, quantities and quantities used.
References
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Directive 2009/128/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2009 on the European System of Pesticides (ESP) (Official Journal C 202 of 22.12.2009)
Amending act(s)
Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2017/852 of 27 November 2017 amending Regulation (EC), Euratom and Directive 2009/127/EC.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
    барка  нахала года  цалка
  горша бодка (госка)
 
 гаральна ходна (калшка).
BACKGROUND
The European Union has adopted a number of measures to protect the environment and human health from the adverse effects of pesticides, including:
EU rules on the use and placing on sale of pesticides;
EU legislation on the protection of plants against pests and diseases.
For more information, see:
European Union statistics on pesticides (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Plant protection product: any pesticide that is intended to prevent, control, reduce or eliminate pests or diseases in plants.
* Molluscicide: any substance intended to kill or reduce molluscids, such as nematodes, molluscs and parasitic protozoa, that is, to prevent or reduce the growth, development and spread of these pests in the environment.
MAIN DOCUMENT
  γоρμα   βδηθηβημη (Planting Protection Regulation (Pesticide Regulation) (OJ C 202, 27.11.2009, pp. 1-2)
Successive amendments to Regulation (Euratom) No 2 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 14.02.2021



Summary 89:
EU rules on plant protection products and active substances (Plant protection products)
European Union (EU) rules on the use of plants and plant protection substances (Active substances)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 552/2008 on the application of Directive 91/414/EEC on the authorisation of active substances, safeners or synergists
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to ensure that active substances*, safeners*, synergists* and adjuvants* are authorised to be used to protect plants or plant products against threats to their health and the environment.
It sets out the conditions for their authorisation.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to:
active substances* and synergists;
adjuvants*;
plant protection products;
plants and plant products intended for use on other crops.
Authorisation
Active substances
An active substance, safener or synergist must be approved if it complies with the following criteria:
it meets the essential requirements for the protection of plant health;
it has been approved on the basis of assessment of the scientific literature;
the competent authority of the EU country examining the application has carried out a programme of experiments or tests in advance or requires a permit for each experiment or test.
The European Commission must publish a list of approved active substances and safeners, synergists and adjuants in the Official Journal of the European Union (JEU).
The Commission must keep a register of approved substances.
Adjuvents must be listed in the following categories:
basic substances;
safer agents;
targets;
mixtures.
An adjuvant must not be included in the list.
There is no need to modify the nature or composition of an active substance or to modify its nature or its composition in order to make it more effective.
Approval criteria for basic substances
A basic substance must comply with the basic substances and synergist criteria.
A synergist may only be authorised if it meets the following conditions:
the active substance has been tested in accordance with the principles of good laboratory practice or of good experimental practice;
a synergist has been reviewed and certified as compliant with the rules of the JEU;
there is no reason to believe that it poses a serious danger to plant health or the environment;
an active substance does not pose a risk to the environment or to human health.
In addition, a synergist is only authorised if the competent authority considers that it is not likely to pose a serious risk to human, animal or plant health and that its use on another crop is not necessary to control that serious danger.
Examination for authorisation
An application must be submitted to the European Commission, which assesses the application and, if appropriate, issues a decision on its application. The Commission then forwards the application to the rapporteur, who then forwards it to the relevant EU country. The rapporteur must:
inform the Commission of the results and the costs of tests and studies on animals;
report to the Commission any claims for data protection made by the applicant;
draw up a list and exchange of information on applications for authorisations;
publish the results of the tests, studies and reports on the active substance and the synergist;
make available to the public any information it receives on the safety and effectiveness of the product;
ensure that the product is accompanied by a warning label and a product information sheet.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
The Regulation has applied since 1 January 2009. EU countries had to incorporate it into national law by 1 January 2011.
BACKGROUND
   
 
For more information, see:
‘Plant Protection Products and Active Substances (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Active substance: a substance that is used to prevent, control or eradicate plant diseases or pests.
* Safener: a natural substance that can be used for the purpose of preventing, controlling or eradicating plant diseases, pests or diseases in plants.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 550/2008 of 21 December 2008 on the approval of active substance*, safener*, synergist*, adjuant*, plant protection product, plant protection material and active substance information (OJ L 183, 21.12.2008, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (Euratom), Euratom have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 04.02.2016



Summary 90:
Information Management Instrument (IMI)
Information management Instrument (MI)
SUMMARY OF:
Implementing Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 — establishing Information Management Instrument
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes the information management instrument (IMEI) and sets out the rules for its use.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to the use of information management instruments (IMIs) by the European Union (EU). It covers:
personal data processing in IMI;
information exchange between IMI actors and users;
processing of special categories of data.
It does not apply to the exchange of personal data processed by IMI with its counterparts in a non-EU country.
Access rights of IMI users and users
IMI users have the right to:
use the IMI system on a need-to-know basis;
have access to their personal data;
ensure that personal data are processed in a way that does not compromise the confidentiality of their data; and
have the right of access, correction and deletion.
Right of access to personal data
Users are allowed to access their data processed in MI only on a ‘need to know’ basis and within the internal market area or areas for which they were granted access rights in accordance with Article 3 of Regulation (EC) No 45/2001 on mutual assistance in internal market areas (i.e. MI, unless a Union act provides for a role for the European Commission in such cooperation).
Right to correction or deletion
The rights of users are set out in Annex II of the regulation. These rights include:
the right to correct and delete personal data that has been wrongly processed;
right to access the information that has not been properly processed and to have it deleted;
access to the information processed by MI.
The right of users to correct, delete and delete the personal data they have processed.
Information exchange between actors
The European Commission is an IMI actor and is responsible for:
exchanging information with the other EU countries;
providing information to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions;
developing and implementing IMI’s policies and procedures;
monitoring the use and functioning of the system.
Implementation
The Commission must:
implement IMI by means of a pilot project;
coordinate with the EU countries on the implementation of the rules and procedures for IMI.
In addition, the Commission must ensure that IMI is used only for the purpose of:
improving the efficiency and effectiveness of the EU's internal market;
raising initiatives, and gathering information on administrative cooperation or mutual assistance;
promoting information exchange between EU countries and the Commission;
supporting the development of information-sharing mechanisms between the Commission and EU countries in order to improve the efficiency of the information exchange system;
advising the Commission on the application of the relevant IMI rules.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
The Regulation has applied since 1 July 2011.
BACKGROUND
   
 
Information Management Instruments (IMi) is a tool that helps the EU to improve its internal market by:
collecting, analysing, processing and disseminating information on the EU economy;
improved the security of information;
facilitating the exchange and exchange of information between EU citizens;
enhancing the security and confidentiality of information.
For more information, see:
‘Information management instruments’ on the European Agency for Safety and Health at Work’ website.
MAIN DOCUMENT
                  
Commission Implementing Regulation of 21 May 2011 establishing the Information Management Institute (Implementation Regulation) (OJ L 183, 28.5.2011, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Implementing Decision 2011/183/EU have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
 			
  The European Commission adopts Implementing Decisions (EU, Euratom) 2018/852 and (EU), 2018/906 on the use, deployment and use of Information Management Instruments and on the management of information exchange within the EU.
Regulation (EC, EC, EC) No 552/2014 of the European Central Bank on information exchange in the field of security and safety at work.
See consolidated version.
Directive 2014/56/EU of the Council of the United Kingdom establishing a European Union Agency for the Safety and Security at Work (EURO) (see summary).
See summary.
Council Decision 2014/55/EU on the establishment of a European External Action Service (EEAS) for the management and operation of the Internal Market and of the Single European Market.
last update 04.02.2021



Summary 91:
Fishing in the Mediterranean and Black Sea: GFCM Agreement
Fishing on the Mediterranean, Black Sea and the Black Sea
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 552/2013 on the implementation of the General Fisheries Conservation Mechanism Agreement (GFCM)
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to ensure that the EU’s fishing fleet registers and the EU fishing fleet register are kept up-to-date on the sustainable use of living marine resources.
It also aims to protect the marine environment and the marine biodiversity of the Mediterranean Sea and Black Seas.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to vessels of more than 15 metres in overall length flying an EU flag and registered in its territory that it authorises to fish in the Great Commission Mediterranean Maritime Maritime Maritime Management Area. It does not apply to:
vessels flying the flag of an EU Member State;
ships registered in an EU country other than that of the EU;
seagoing vessels;
fishing gear.
The agreement applies to the following areas, species and fishing gear:
the Mediterranean Sea;
the Black Sea.
Authorisations
Each Member State must:
ensure that authorisations to fish or transport fish and fishery products are compatible with the information obtained under point 1 and the duration of the authorisations and their application to areas;
verify that the official documentation on board is valid, if necessary, through appropriate contacts with the flag State or international records of vessels.
provide the Commission with a list of authorised vessels and the number and type of fishing gear;
check that the authorisation is valid and that the fishing gear is in line with the requirements laid down in the agreement;
provides the Commission a report on the carrying over of days lost in the previous year as referred to in paragraph 2.
Register of vessels
Each year, each Member State sends to the Commission, through the Commission's data-processing support, an updated list of the vessels of 15 metres or more flying its flag, registered in the country of registration and flying its territory and flying the Community fishing fleet number. The Commission then forwards this list to the European Commission, which then forwards it to the EU countries.
Port inspections
Port inspectors must verify that:
authorisations issued by the Member State to fish, transport or engage in fishing activities are valid;
where authorised vessels are present in an area, they must check that the information on board the vessel is compatible with points 1 and 2 of the regulation;
if authorised vessels fail to comply with the regulation, the Commission may issue an authorisation to withdraw it.
Fishery gear
The Commission must ensure that fishing gear inspections are carried out in accordance with the agreement. It must also send a report every 2 years on the results of inspections to the Member States and the Commission.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 January 2014.
BACKGROUND
The EU is a party to the General Fishery Conservation Management Agreement.
For more information, see:
‘Fishing’ on the EU Commission's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Fishing gear: any fishing gear used to catch fish and/or other species of fish.
MAIN DOCUMENT
 
  Еォォォ
Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 550/2013 of 21 December 2013 on the enforcement of the general fisheries conservation management agreement (GFMC) (OJ L 347, 21.12.2013, pp. 1-3)
Successive amendments to Regulation (Euratom) no 550/13 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 04.02.2016



Summary 92:
European patent with unitary effect
European patent on the market
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 1260/2012 on the granting of European patents
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes the European Patent Office (EPO) as a European patent organisation.
It sets out the rules for granting European patents.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to:
patents that are granted by the EPO on the basis of a single application, i.e. a patent that has the same effect in all EU countries, irrespective of the country in which the patent was granted;
pending patents that have the effect of a ‘unitary effect’.
The purpose of the regulation is to ensure that patents granted by EU countries have the same legal effect throughout the European Union (EU).
It does not apply to patents which have been granted by a single EU country.
EU countries may grant a patent to a patent proprietor if they consider that they have the right to prevent any third party from committing acts against the patent.
Licensing of patents
A patent may be licensed in respect of the whole or part of the territories of the participating EU countries. It may also be licensed to a non-EU country if it is granted in the territory of the EU country where the patent is licensed.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 January 2013. EU countries had to incorporate it into national law by 1 January 2014.
BACKGROUND
The European Patent Organisation
The EPO was established by the Convention on the Grant of European Patents of 5 October 1973, as revised on 17 December 1991 and on 29 November 2000 (hereinafter ‘EPC’).
The EPC was established in order to ensure the proper functioning of the European patent, consistency of case-law and hence legal certainty, and cost-effectiveness for patent proprietors.
For more information, see:
European Patent Organisation (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Unitary patent: a patent which is granted by an EU country to a single person or company.
* Unitary patent: the patent granted to a person or a company which has the exclusive right to patent a product or service in all the EU countries in which it has been granted.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Commission Implementing Regulation (EC) No 652/2013
1.1.2013
-
OJ L 347 of 1.1-2013
RELATED ACTS
 
Commission Decision 2014/852/EU of 27 November 2014 on the establishment of a Unified Patent Court to hear cases concerning European patents (Official Journal L 338 of 28.11.2014).
Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 596/2014 of 28 November 2014 establishing a Unified patent court to hear patent cases concerning the European patents conferred on a patent (OJ C 596 of 29.12.2014.
Commission Recommendation 2014/921/EU on the application of Regulation (EPC) No 496/2013 on the grant of European patent with the unitary effects (Official J L 347, 28.12-2014). The recommendation concerns the application for a Unified Product Patent. The recommendation is based on the experience gained in the case of a patent conferred on an object of property (Object of Property) which is a product which is not a product. The aim of the decision is to improve the legal certainty of the patent and to ensure its proper functioning.
Last updated: 27.07.2014



Summary 93:
Ensuring the enforcement of intellectual property rights in the internal market: EU Office for Intellectual Property Rights
Establishing the European Office for intellectual property Rights
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 552/2010 establishing the European Observatory for the Enforcement of Intellectual Property rights
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes the European Organisation for Intellectual Product Rights (OIPRD).
The OIPRD’s main tasks are to:
facilitate and support the activities of national authorities, the private sector and the Union institutions relating to the enforcement and fight against infringements of those rights;
promote best practice and effective methods to respect those rights.
KEY POINTS
The regulation sets up the European Intellectual Property Office. It is responsible for:
monitoring infringements and counterfeiting;
collecting and analysing data on counterfeiting and piracy;
organising meetings of representatives from public administrations, bodies and organisations in the EU countries dealing with infringements;
providing information on infringements to the European Commission, the European Parliament, the Council and the European Economic and Social Committee (EESC).
It also sets up an annual work programme that appropriately prioritises the activities under this regulation and for the meetings of the Observatory, in line with the EU's policies and priorities in the field of protection of rights and in cooperation with the representatives referred to in point (a of Article 4(5) of the regulation.
It is composed of:
representatives from the public administrations and bodies of the Member States dealing with intellectual property;
representative from the private sectors;
participation of consumers and of small and medium-sized enterprises;
members of the internet intermediaries.
The European Commission:
draws up the work programme and the management report;
publishes the notices that are necessary for the fulfilment of all the tasks entrusted to the Office by this regulation;
cooperates with the Office on its activities;
is assisted by the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF).
FROM WHEN DOES THE REGULE APPLY?

It has applied since 1 January 2011.
BACKGROUND
The EU has adopted a number of measures to protect intellectual property. These include:
the creation of the European Copyright Office (ECPO);
the establishment of the EU Intellectual Property Secretariat (IPSI);
measures to combat counterfeiting.
For more information, see:
‘The fight against counterfeiting’ on the ECPO's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Copying: the copying or copying of a product or service.
ACT
Council Regulation (EU) No 550/2010 of 21 December 2010 establishing the Office for the Protection of intellectual Property Rights.
last update 04.02.2016



Summary 94:
International trade agreements — rules for exercising the EU’s rights under international trade agreements (trade in services, intellectual property rights and intellectual property protection)
International trade deals – rules for the exercise of the EU's rights
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 552/2014 — rules on exercising the Union's rights under International trade agreements
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out rules on how the European Union (EU) can exercise its rights to trade in goods and services with non-EU countries.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to:
international trade agreements between the EU and any country which is a party to an international trade agreement;
trade agreements between EU countries which are not parties to an EU trade agreement.
It does not apply to agreements concluded under the World Trade Organization (WTO) or the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade in Services (GATT).
EU countries must ensure that:
the measures adopted under the regulation do not infringe on the rights of the exporting country;
they do not affect the rights or obligations of the importing country.
The measures may include:
a safeguard measure or an extension of a safeguard measure;
the imposition of a mandatory price penalty on terms established in Article XXVIII of the GATT;
a level of nullification or impairment of the benefits accruing to the EU under the agreement, i.e.
the suspension, modification or repeal of measures adopted by the EU.
Implementing measures
The Commission must adopt implementing acts suspending, amending or repealing measures suspending, modifying or repealing implementing acts adopted under this regulation within 3 years of the adoption of an implementing act. The Commission must report its findings to the European Parliament and the Council on the implementation of the implementing acts.
In the case of measures in the field of public procurement, the Commission must consult the public authorities in the EU countries before adopting implementing acts, in particular the European Commission.
Suspension, modification and repeal
An implementing act may be suspended, modified or repealed by the Commission if it:
does not:
violates the rights conferred on the EU by the agreement; or
is contrary to the interests of the contracting parties;
is not compatible with the principles of the WTO;
may infringe the rights and obligations of a contracting party.
An EU country may suspend, modify or repeal the implementing act if it considers that the measures are contrary to its economic interests or that they are not consistent with the objectives of the agreement. It must inform the Commission and the other contracting parties of the reasons for its decision.
A Commission committee must adopt immediately applicable implementing acts:
in the case where the contracting party is a natural or legal person, the origin of that legal person is deemed to be the origin or legal entity which own or control it. This origin of the legal person must be determined in accordance with the rules laid down in the annex to the regulation;
in cases where it is a legal person who is not engaged in substantive business operations such that it has a direct and effective link with the economy of the Member State in which it is established;
where it is not a natural person, it is considered to be an origin of a legal entity that own or controls it.
Information
Information received pursuant to this regulation must be used only for the purpose for which it was requested. It may not be used for any other purpose other than the purposes for which the information is requested.
Disputes between contracting parties must be settled by means of a negotiated settlement.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
This regulation entered into force on 18 July 2014. It repeals Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 652/2013.
BACKGROUND
   
 
For more information, see:
International Trade Agreements (European Commission).
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EEC, EC) No 550/2014 of 8 May 2014 on the exercise by the Union of its rights under the International Trade agreements (Trade in Services, Intellectual Property Rights and Intellectual Property Protection) (OJ L 127, 18.5.2014, pp. 1-2)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EU, EC), Euratom have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 14.02.2016



Summary 95:
Safeguard measures for the import of bananas from Central America
Safefarmers’ measures for bananas from the Central American countries
The European Union (EU) has adopted a series of measures designed to protect the EU’s banana sector from the risks posed by the illegal trade in bananas originating in Central America.
ACT
Council Regulation (EC) No 552/2019 of 31 December 2019 establishing a system of safeguard measures for imports of bananas originating from the countries of the Central America region.
SUMMARY
WHAT DOES THIS REGULATION DO?
It establishes a system for implementing safeguard measures to protect EU countries’ banana sector against the risk posed by illegal imports originating in the region of Central America (known as the ‘Banana Triangle’).
KEY POINTS
Scope
The measures apply to:
bananas originating in Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua, Panama, Nicaragua and Venezuela, as well as to products originating in those countries;
grains originating in Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, Venezuela and Nicaragua;
seeds originating in Ecuador, Paraguay, Peru and Venezuela.
The regulation applies to all imports originating from these countries, except those originating in Panama.
It does not apply to the following countries:
the United States of America;
the European Economic Area (EEA);
the Republic of Colombia;
Yucatán;
Venezuela;
Guatemala;
Zambia;
Somalia.
Import statistics
The Commission must monitor the evolution of import statistics of bananas imported from the regions of the Caribbean and the Pacific Ocean.
If the import statistics show that there has been a surge in imports, the Commission may adopt a safeguard measure. The measures may be temporary or permanent, depending on the volume of imports.
A safeguard measure may not be applied beyond the expiry of the transitional period, except with the consent of the country concerned.
In the event that there is a surge of imports concentrated in one or several Member States, or outermost regions, or if there is sufficient prima facie evidence that the conditions for initiation are met, it may be initiated in the event of a surge. The Commission may also initiate a proceeding to suspend the preferential customs duty applied to products of the same origin during that same year for a period of time not exceeding 3 months, and not going beyond the end of the calendar year or determine that such suspension is not appropriate.
Exemptions from safeguard measures
No safeguard measure shall be applied to imports of a product originating in a country that is not a party to the Agreement on the Free movement of Goods between the EU and its Member States (see summary).
In addition, no safeguard measure will apply to imports originating, exported or intended to be exported from a country other than the one covered by the agreement.
Importers must inform the Commission of the volume and origin of the products they intend to import from the affected country.
EU countries must notify the Commission if they consider that the volume or origin of a particular product is likely to exceed the threshold set by the regulation.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
 
   
It applies from 31 December 2020.
BACKGROUND
  The EU has adopted measures to safeguard the banana sector in the context of the agreement on the free movement of goods between the European Union and the countries in the Caribbean.
For more information, see:
Bananas (European Commission).
MAIN DOCUMENT
  �                     барска  халанскогда 
Commission Implementing Regulation (EEC) 2019/552 of 30 November 2019 laying down a framework for implementing measures relating to the protection of the agricultural sector of the Union against the threat posed by illicit imports from the Caribbean (OJ L 347, 31.12.2019, pp. 1-2)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 529/2019 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
                 
                                      
Regulation (EU), Euratom No 553/2019 on the implementation of measures concerning the protection against illicit imports of agricultural products from the Mediterranean Sea and repealing Council Regulation No 551/2011 (OCT) No 652/2011 on the protection from illicit trade in agricultural products and repealing Commission Implementing Regulations (Euratom) 2015/849/EEC, (EURatom) 2014/852/EUR) and (EC), (EUCAT) 2016/853 and (Eucatam) 2018/854.
Council Implementing Decision 2014/721/EU of 11 December 2014 on the conclusion of the Agreement establishing a mechanism for the prevention and control



Summary 96:
Preservation of bank accounts in cross-border civil matters (Regulation (EC) No 596/2013)
Preservation in cross -border civil matter (Regulating (EC)) No 597/2013
The European Union (EU) has adopted a regulation to ensure that bank accounts held by or with central banks are preserved.
ACT
Council Regulation (EC, Euratom).
SUMMARY
WHAT DOES THIS REGULATION DO?
It establishes a procedure for a creditor to request that a bank account or accounts be preserved in order to recover debts from a debtor.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to:
bank accounts held in an EU country other than:
the EU country of the court seised of the application for the preservation order pursuant to Article 6;
the country in which the creditor is domiciled.
It does not apply to bank accounts that are held by the European Central Bank (ECB) when acting in their capacity as monetary authorities.
Creditors may request that the bank account be preserved if they consider that there is an urgent need for such account information because there is a risk that, without it, the subsequent enforcement of the creditor’s claim against the debtor is likely to be jeopardised and that this could consequently lead to a substantial deterioration of the debtor's financial situation.
The creditor must provide the creditor with all the relevant information available to him about the debtor and the bank or accounts to be preserved. The creditor may also provide security in lieu of preservation.
In addition, the creditor must inform the debtor of the existence of a need for the order. The debtor must be informed about the creditor's application and be heard prior to the issue of the order or notified of the Order prior to its implementation.
A creditor may refuse to issue the order if it considers that the creditor has not presented sufficient evidence to support its claim.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
    ‘Preservation Order’ has applied since 1 January 2013.
BACKGROUND
 
  “Cross-border Civil Matters” is part of a series of measures designed to improve judicial cooperation in civil matters.
For more information, see:
Cross-Border Civil Matters (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Bank account: any account or account that is held by a central bank.
* Creditor: any person who is a creditor of a debtor and who has a claim against that debtor for the same amount of money.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Directive 2013/17/EU
1.1.2013
-
OJ L 127 of 1.1., 2013, pp. 1-3
RELATED ACTS
Regulation 2013/18/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 on the protection of personal data held by central banks and amending Council Regulation (Euratom) No 498/2013 on the preservation of accounts in the event of a change in the monetary policy of the Member State concerned (Official Journal L 96 of 31.12.2013, p. 1)
last update 04.02.2016



Summary 97:
EU border surveillance: operational rules for border surveillance and search and rescue operations
European border surveillance
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 656/2014 on the operational rules of border surveillance for the implementation, application and development of the Schengen acquis
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes rules on border surveillance to prevent unauthorised border crossings, to counter cross-border criminality and to apprehend or take other measures against those who have crossed the border in an irregular manner.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to:
border surveillance in the territory of the European Union (EU).
It does not apply to border surveillance in non-EU countries.
The purpose of the regulation is to prevent illegal border crossings.
It applies to the following areas:
crossing the external borders of the EU;
the transit of persons, goods and services between EU countries;
cross-border smuggling;
trafficking in human beings;
transport of goods, services and persons.
Operational rules
EU countries must:
ensure that border surveillance is proportionate to the objectives pursued, non-discriminatory and should fully respect human dignity, fundamental rights and the rights of refugees and asylum seekers, including the principle of non-refoulement;
not discriminate between national authorities;
cooperate with each other in order to prevent, detect and respond to illegal border crossing;
take appropriate measures to prevent or respond to cross-crossing incidents;
use the information provided by the participating country’s national border surveillance units;
assist in the prevention, detection and response units.
Coordination and coordination of surveillance operations
Each EU country must establish a border surveillance unit. This unit is responsible for:
detecting and responding to illegal crossings;
carrying out searches and rescues;
operating in the event of interception on the high seas;
ensuring the safe return of persons and goods to their country of origin;
coordinating and coordinating searches and rescue situations.
In addition, the EU country in which the surveillance operation is taking place must establish an operational plan for the operation. The plan must contain details of the operation, including:
the number of personnel involved;
its duration and duration;
a description of the objectives and objectives of the surveillance operations;
details of the intended actions or measures authorised by the flag country;
measures taken in the course of a surveillance operation that are proportionate and proportionate.
National coordination centres
The national coordination centres of the participating EU countries must coordinate with the European Asylum Support Office (EASO) and the International Coordination Centre (ICC) of the International Maritime Organization (IMO).
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
The Regulation has applied since 1 July 2014.
BACKGROUND
   
 
For more information, see:
Border surveillance (European Commission).
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Decision 2014/656/EU of 28 June 2014 on the implementation of Regulation (EC) No 562/2006 on the establishment of a European Union border surveillance system (OJ L 132, 29.5.2014, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 608/2014 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
 			
Commission Implementing Decision (EU), Euratom of 27 June 2014 establishing a European Asylum and Migration Office (EMMO) and amending Council Decision 2008/146/EC on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Community, the European Economic and Social Committee, the Swiss Confederation and the European Free Trade Association (EFTA) on implementing, applying and developing the European acquis and repealing Council Decision 1999/437/EC.
last update 14.02.2016



Summary 98:
EU migration and asylum programmes: financial rules
EU migration, asylum and protection programmes: Financial rules
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 — financial rules for the implementation of national programmes
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to ensure that EU countries’ national programmes are financially sound.
It sets out the rules and procedures for the financing of these programmes.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to:
national programmes for the management of the external borders of the EU;
EU actions, emergency assistance and technical assistance for migrants and asylum seekers;
the protection of EU citizens’ rights and the protection of the environment.
EU countries are responsible for:
implementing national programmes;
monitoring and evaluating them;
ensuring that they are in line with the EU’s general principles of subsidiarity;
providing information to potential beneficiaries about funding opportunities;
publicising to EU citizens the role and achievements of the specific regulations.
Evaluation
The European Commission is responsible for the monitoring and evaluation of the national programmes. It must:
monitor and evaluate the programmes’ effectiveness;
identify and correct any irregularities;
report to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee, the Committee of the Regions and the European Commission on the results and impact of the programmes; and
report annually to the Commission on its implementation.
Responsibilities of EU countries
Each EU country must ensure that beneficiaries receive the full amount due promptly. They must also:
ensure that beneficiaries do not have to pay any late payments;
make sure that beneficiaries are not overbilled;
take the necessary measures to prevent, detect and correct irregularities and recover amounts unduly paid together with any interest on late payments.
In addition, EU countries should ensure that:
all beneficiaries are provided with information on and access to the programmes in their country;
all payments are made in the euro.
The Commission may:
make financial corrections if it considers that a national programme has breached EU or national law;
notify the responsible authorities of any breaches;
use the financial correction mechanism;
inform the Commission of the nature and gravity of the breach and the amount of financial correction.
FROM WHEN DOES THE REGULE APPLY?
   
It has applied since 30 June 2012. EU countries had to incorporate it into national law by 30 June 2014.
BACKGROUND
The EU is one of the most dynamic economies in the world. It has the largest external borders in Europe and faces a high level of migration and protection needs. It is therefore essential to have a coherent approach to tackling these challenges.
For more information, see:
‘Migration and asylum’ on the Commission's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Migration and asylum: the EU's external borders policy. It aims to protect EU citizens' rights and respect for international and human rights law, including as regards actions implemented in third countries, showing solidarity amongst all EU countries and demonstrating the need to respect national responsibilities in the process of ensuring a clear definition of tasks.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Council Regulation (EU) No 865/2012
30.6.2012
-
OJ L 136 of 30.6-30.2012.
RELATED ACTS
 
Regulations (EC) No 596/2013, (EC), (Euratom), (EU), (EEA) No 652/2013 and (EU).
Regulatory (EU): No 965/2013 of the European Central Bank and of the Council of 11 December 2013 establishing a European Union External Action Service (EUROS).
Directive 2013/23/EU on the European Asylum and Migration Agency (EASA)
Decision 2013/24/EU of the Commission and the Council on the establishment of a European Asylum, Migration and Protection Agency (EMSA).
Commission Implementing Decision 2013/25/EU establishing a common framework for implementing the European Union external action and protection policy (EUS).
Council Implementing Decisions 2013/13/EU and 2014/23-EU of 11 November 2013 establishing the European Border and Coast Guard Agency.
Council implementing Decision 2014/22/EU setting up a European border and coast guard agency (EBSA).
Last updated: 30.02.2014



Summary 99:
European Asylum and Migration Fund
European asylum and migration Fund
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 514/2014 establishing the European Asylum and Migratory Fund
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
   
It sets up the EU’s first permanent migration and asylum fund.
It aims to provide financial support to EU countries in order to strengthen and develop the common European asylum system, including its external dimension, and to support legal migration to the EU.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The fund covers the period 2008-2013. It is funded by the general budget of the European Union (EU).
The EU countries are responsible for:
allocating the funds;
providing specific assistance to the European Migration and Integration Office (EMI) and the European Border and Coast Guard Agency (BERCAA);
supporting the implementation of EU readmission agreements;
organising joint return operations, including joint actions with non-EU countries.
Specific actions
EU countries must ensure that:
the EMI and the BACAA work together to:
ensure that EU countries respect the principle of non-refoulement;
promote the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms;
facilitate the exchange of information and experience between EU countries on migration and border management;
encourage EU countries to cooperate in the field of migration;
cooperate in the fight against trafficking in human beings.
The EMIs and BACAsylum-seekers are eligible for financial support under the EU countries’ national asylum systems.
National contact points
The European Union countries must establish national contact points (NCPs) to provide information and assistance on migration issues. The NCPs must:
coordinate with each other and with the relevant international organisations;
assist in the coordination of national migration policies and programmes;
support the development and implementation of the common EU asylum system;
develop and strengthen all aspects of the Common European Asylum System, including the external dimension;
contribute to the development of the internal dimension of the EU migration system.
Efficiency of measures and quality of spending
The objectives of the fund are evaluated using common indicators as set out in Annex IV to the regulation and programme-specific indicators included in national programmes.
Financing
The Fund is financed by the European Commission and the Member States. It may be used for the following specific actions:
reintegration operations;
joint return operations; and
legal migration.
FROM WHEN DOES IT APPLY?
The regulation applies from 1 January 2015.
BACKGROUND
 
  The European Asylum Fund was established in 2008 as part of the General Programme ‘Solidarity and Management of Migration Flows’ (OJ L 144, 6.6.2007, pp. 45-48).
For more information, see:
European Asylum Fund (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Migrant: a term used in the context of the general programme ‘solidarity and management of migration flows’.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member State
Official Journal
Council Decision No 575/2007/EC
1.1.2015
-
OJ C 202, 1.1 of 1.2.2015.
RELATED ACTS
Regulations (EU, Euratom) No 496/2014 and (EU), Euratom No 513/2014 of the Council and of the Representatives of the Governments of the Union on the establishment of a European Migration Fund and on the European External Action Service and on cooperation between the European Agency for Fundamental Rights and the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR).
Council Regulation (EC) No 652/2013 of 27 June 2013 on the creation of a new European Migration Facility and on coordination between the EU Member States’ external action centres and on a European Asylum Facility for Migration and the Union External Action Services.
Council Resolution of 27 May 2013 on a common approach to migration and migration policy.
Last updated: 28.07.2014



Summary 100:
European Union Fund for the fight against transnational crime
European Union fund for the combatting crime
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 514/2014 establishing a European Union Fund to combat crime
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes a multiannual financial instrument to support EU countries’ efforts to combat transnational organised crime.
It aims to provide financial assistance to EU countries in order to protect people and goods from increasingly transnational threats and to support the work carried out by Member States’ competent authorities.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to matters that are covered by the EU’s action in the field of freedom, security and justice (2014-2020) and to the European Union (EU), the European Economic Area (EEA) and the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU (TFEU).
It does not apply to matters related to the EU budget.
EU countries are encouraged to use a part of the global resources available for the national programmes to address the strategic EU priorities set out in Annex I to this regulation. These are:
the fight against organised crime and transnational terrorism;
the prevention and control of organised crime;
countering the financing of illicit drugs and their transport;
protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms.
The European Commission is responsible for the implementation of the instrument. It is assisted by the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF).
Funding
The instrument is funded by EU countries and the European Commission. It has a budget of €2.5 billion.
Funds are allocated to:
€1 billion from the general budget;
€500 million from the European Investment Bank for Europe (EIB);
€250 million from Horizon 2020.
In addition, the EU countries may use a portion of the resources available from the EIB for:
emergency assistance;
research and development;
cooperation;
training;
exchange of information and best practices;
technical assistance.
Programmes
The EU countries must, within the objectives referred to in Article 3 of this regulation, pursue in particular the strategic Union priorities listed in the annex to the regulation, taking account of the outcome of the policy dialogue and the results of the European Council on the EU's foreign and security policy, as well as of the Council of Europe's annual policy dialogue on security and security.
National programmes
The national programmes must:
contribute to the prevention, control and enforcement of transnational crimes;
promote cooperation, coordination, contingency planning and the exchange and dissemination of best practices among public and private actors;
support the work of the competent authorities of EU countries;
provide technical assistance to Member States and the Commission;
ensure that Member States implement their national programmes in line with the requirements laid down in the regulation.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 January 2015.
BACKGROUND
 
  The European Union is a member of the Schengen area.
For more information, see:
‘The fight against crime’ on the European External Action Service's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Transnational crime: the illegal trade in goods, services, capital, capital movements and capital movements of persons, goods and capital.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 496/2014 of 21 December 2014 establishing a Fund for combating crime (OJ L 31, 1.1.2015, pp. 1-2)
Successive amendments and corrections to Regulation (EJ L31, 1) have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 14.02.2016



Summary 101:
Non-sustainable fishing: EU rules on non-EU countries’ access to fishing stocks
Non-EU rules on Non-EU fishing: European Union policies
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 552/2013 on the EU’s implementation of measures to combat non-Sustainable fishing
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes rules on the European Union (EU), the European Commission and the Member States’ implementation of the EU fisheries policy.
It aims to prevent, deter and eliminate illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
KEY POINTS
The regulation establishes a framework for cooperation between the EU countries to prevent and deter non-sustainably fishing*.
It does not apply to:
fishing in the Baltic Sea;
the Baltic Sea and the Black Sea; or
the Black Sea.
The European Commission has the power to identify non-compliance with the rules of the regulation and to adopt measures in respect of such countries. These measures must be effective and proportionate, and must be enforced by competent authorities.
In addition, the Commission must:
identify a country that is allowing or is likely to allow non sustainable fishing;
take measures to prohibit, restrict, restrict or prohibit fishing in the area in question;
ensure that the measures are enforced by the competent authorities of the country concerned;
establish an appropriate system for their enforcement.
Cooperation may be established in the framework of regional fisheries management organisations (RFMOIs) or, where RFMOs have no competence for the stock in question, by means of ad hoc arrangements among the countries having an interest in the fishery.
This cooperation may take place in the context of an RFMO or, for example, through the creation of an ad hoc arrangement.
FROM WHEN DOES THE REGULE APPLACE APPLY?
 
   
It has applied since 1 January 2014.
BACKGROUND
The EU has adopted a number of rules on fishing, including:
the EU fisheries strategy (see summary);
the rules on sustainable fishing (see overview);
rules on the management of stocks of common interest.
For more information, see:
EU fisheries policy (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Non-Union fishing: fishing that is not sustainable.
* Sustainable fishing: non-fishing that takes place in areas where there is a high risk of overfishing.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 550/2013 of 21 December 2013 on the exercise of implementing powers by the Commission pursuant to Article 4 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the Union (TFEU) (OJ L 347, 28.12.2013, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Council Regulation (Euratom) no 550/13 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 04.02.2016



Summary 102:
Bilateral investment agreements between the EU and non-EU countries (until 9 January 2013)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 on the signing and conclusion of bilateral investment agreements with third countries
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out the conditions under which EU countries are empowered to amend or conclude bilateral investment* agreements with countries outside the European Union (EU).
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to agreements concluded between an EU country and a third country. It does not apply to bilateral agreements concluded by EU countries with the United Kingdom (1) or the United States of America (2).
EU countries must notify the European Commission of their intention to sign or conclude a bilateral investment agreement with a non EU country. The notification must include:
a copy of the agreement;
a description of the reasons for the decision;
the terms and conditions for concluding the agreement.
The Commission may request further information from the EU country concerned.
If the Commission finds that the agreement satisfies the requirements of Article 9(1) and (2) of the TFEU, it authorises the maintenance or entry into force of such an agreement under EU law. The agreement may be maintained in force, or enter into force, until a bilateral agreement between the Union and the same third country enters into force.
In the case of a dispute, the Commission must:
seek the agreement of the country concerned before activating any relevant mechanisms for dispute settlement against a country included in the agreement and must, where requested by the Commission, activate such mechanisms.
Authorisation to sign and conclude an investment agreement
An EU country must request the Commission’s authorisation to open formal negotiations. This authorisation must be granted in accordance with the advisory procedure referred to in Article 16(2). Where additional information is needed to take a decision, the 90-day period must run from the date of receipt of the additional information. The Commission may, where appropriate, consult the European Economic and Social Committee (EESC) and the Committee for Investment Agreements.
Where the Commission considers that a bilateral Investment agreement notified pursuant to paragraph 1 of this regulation fulfils its requirements, it may authorise the maintenance, entry or renewal of such agreement under Union law.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULATING APPLY?
   
It has applied since 9 January 2011.
BACKGROUND
The EU has exclusive competence with respect to the common commercial policy. This means that it has the power to adopt and implement bilateral agreements.
For more information, see:
Investment agreements (European Commission).
* KEY TERMS
* Bilateral investment agreement: an international agreement between a country and another EU country on the subject of investment.
* Non-EU country: a country outside the EU with which the EU has an economic or trade relationship.
MAIN DOCUMENT
  � 
Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 181/2011 of 9 December 2011 establishing the conditions for the signing, on behalf of the Union, and conclusion, of bilateral investments agreements between Member States and third countries (OJ L 127, 9.1.2011, pp. 1-2)
Successive amendments to Regulation (Euratom) no 181/2010 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 04.02.2016



Summary 103:
Guaranteed market access for the least-developed countries
Guarantee market access to the EU’s common commercial policy
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EEC) No 552/93 — GUaranteed preferential market access (GSP)
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes a general framework for the European Union (EU) to apply the Generalised system of preferential trade preferences for the countries of the least developed world.
KEY POINTS
The regulation establishes a list of eligible countries for the GSP.
The list includes countries for which preferences may have been temporarily withdrawn or suspended.
Beneficiary countries
The GSP applies to:
non-EU countries that have not been identified by the United Nations (UN) as a least developed country during the first available review of the category of least-develop countries;
the EU countries that are not identified as least developed countries by the UN.
It does not apply to countries which are not members of the World Trade Organization (WTO) or the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD).
Beneficiaries
EU countries are eligible for GSP preferences on the basis of the following criteria:
their gross domestic product (GDP) per capita;
gross domestic product per capita.
GDP per capita per inhabitant;
their GDP per capita as a percentage of the population.
A country is eligible if it meets the criteria set out in the annex to the regulation.
its GDP per head of population
its population is at least developed (i.e.
Its GDP per inhabit less than 1.5 % of the EU.
In addition, the following countries are excluded from the list of GSP beneficiaries:
Bulgaria
Seychelles
Côte d’Ivoire
Chile
Djibouti
Guinea-Bissau
Guadeloupe
Iceland
Lithuania
Mauritius
Nauru
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Oceania
Papua New Guinea
Rwanda
Zambia
Zimbabwe
Somalia
Samoa
Yemen
Zampere
Samoans
Samosas
Samuatuatu
Wales
Slovenia
Sweden
Sri Lanka
Svalbard
Sinai
Sudan
Tonga
Sustainable Development Mechanism (SDM)
Tunisia
Vietnam
Venezuela
Sierra Leone
Venezuella
Vatican City
Yugoslavia
Guatemala
Guyanese
Guinean
Yamagata
Sarawak
Sevilla
Sulawesi
Sofia
Yakutia
Luxembourg
Serbia and Montenegro
Serbian Federative Republic of Macedonia
Safeguard of the Atlantic (SFA)
Sino-American Free Trade Agreement (SAFTA)
Swedish Free Trade Association (SWTAA)
Romania
Romanian Free Trade Area (RFTA).
Sovereign Economic Area (SEA)
Zagreb
Saraguan Free Trade area (SWA).
The SAFTA is an area of cooperation between the EU and the EU countries which have ratified the following international agreements:
The United Nations Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination (UNCTAD);
The Stockholm Convention on persistent Organic Pollutants (2001)
The Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety (2000)
the Kyoto Protocol on Biological Diversity (2002);
the Stockholm Convention (2003)
Council of Europe Agreement on the Protection of Life and Health of Animals and Plants (2003).
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
The implementing act has applied since 1 January 1994.
BACKGROUND
   
The European Commission has adopted a number of implementing acts to establish the general framework of the Generalized System of Preferential Trade Arrangements.
For more information, see:
General framework of trade preferences (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Generalised System of Preferences: a system of tariff preferences designed to facilitate trade in goods and services between 2 or more countries.
* Common customs tariff specific duties: a tariff which is reduced by 30 % on products listed in Annex V as sensitive products.
MAIN DOCUMENT
 
                    The Generalised Scheme of Preferences (GESP) (OJ L 347, 1.1.1994, pp. 1-3)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EEU) No 529/93 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 04.02.2018



Summary 104:
Exporting firearms: UN Firearms Protocol
Export firearms
SUMMARY OF:
United Nations Firearms Protocol (UN Firearms Protocol)
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE PROTOCOL AND OF THE REGULATION?
The United Nations (UN) Firearms Protocol aims to prevent, combat and eradicate the illicit manufacturing of and trafficking in firearms, their parts and components and ammunition.
It aims to:
promote, facilitate and strengthen cooperation among the signatory countries in order to prevent and combat the illicit manufacture and trafficking of firearms;
combat the illicit trade in firearms and their components;
contribute to the prevention, control and eradication of the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The protocol applies to the import and export of:
firearms;
parts and components* and ammunition* intended for use in a firearm;
firearm accessories;
machineguns;
ammunition.
Exports
An export authorisation must be granted by the competent authorities of an EU country to a non-EU country. The authorisation may be revoked if there are grounds for suspicion that the reasons substantiated by hunters or sport shooters are not in conformity with the relevant considerations and the obligations laid down in the protocol.
The authorisation is valid for a period not exceeding 10 days. It may be renewed at any time by the customs authorities of the EU country.
An exporter must:
ensure that the goods are accompanied by an export contract has been concluded or that the exporter has the power to determine the sending of the items out of the item;
provide proof of the goods;
the exporter is responsible for ensuring that the items comply with the requirements of the export contract;
notify the customs authority of the importing country of the reason for the suspension or revocation of the authorisation.
If an exporter fails to provide proof of receipt of the import authorisation, it must inform the competent authority of that country of its decision to suspend the export or, if necessary, otherwise prevent the export.
EU countries must ensure that:
the consignments of firearms and ammunition are accompanied and accompanied by a certificate of authenticity;
there is no risk of counterfeiting or falsification of the certificates of authenticity.
FROM WHEN DOES THE PROTOPOL APPLY?
It has applied since 3 July 2005. EU countries had to incorporate it into national law by 3 July 2006.
BACKGROUND
The UN Firearms protocol, which is part of the United Nations Convention on the Suppliers’ Rights of Man and of Animals, entered into force on 3 July 2004.
For more information, see:
‘Unlawful trade in arms’ on the European Commission's website.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EEC) No 929/2005 of 3 July2005 on the conclusion, on behalf of the European Union, and provisional application of the Protocol on the International Trade in Arms and Ammunition (OJ L 127, 3.7.2005, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EC) no 929 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
   
 
Regulation (EU) No 596/2006 of the Council of the Union of 11 December 2006 on the Common Customs Tariff on the export of goods and amending Council Regulations (EC, Euratom) No 2658/87 of 23 July 1987 on the tariff and statistical nomenclature of goods, and on the common customs tariff on the import of goods (EC), and repealing Council Regulation (EU), No 598/2006 on the customs tariff (EC).
See consolidated version.
Commission Implementing Decision No 597/2006/EC of 3 December 2006 establishing a European Union Customs Union Firearms Union (EU Firearms Union).
last update 04.01.2016



Summary 105:
EUROSUR: situational awareness and reaction capability at the external borders of the EU countries
EurosURASUR
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 1052/2013 establishing the framework for cooperation in the field of border surveillance
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes the EUROSUR framework, which aims to improve the situational awareness, reaction and intelligence capabilities of national authorities and the European Border and Coast Guard Agency (Eurasur) at the EU’s external borders for the purpose of detecting, preventing and combating illegal immigration and cross-border crime and contributing to ensuring the protection and saving the lives of migrants.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to:
national coordination centres;
national situational pictures;
communications network;
a European situational picture;
common pre-frontier intelligence picture.
It does not apply to any legal or administrative measure in the context of operational cooperation coordinated by the Agency.
National coordination centres
The national coordination centres of neighbouring EU countries must share with each other, directly and in near-real-time, the situational picture of neighbouring external border sections relating to the following:
incidents and other significant events;
tactical risk analysis reports as contained in the analysis layer.
The communication network contains information in the form of a communication network in accordance with Article 11d of Regulation (EC) No 2007/2004.
EU countries must ensure that the communication network is interoperable and can be used for the exchange of information.
EURASA
The Agency may refuse a request for a request from a national coordination centre for technical, financial or operational reasons.
Agency
The agency may use on its own initiative the surveillance tools referred to in paragraph 2 for collecting information which is relevant for the common pre-border intelligence picture and the common surveillance tools.
In addition, the Agency may use surveillance tools for the following purposes:
collecting, analysing and sharing information;
monitoring and analysing movements of migrants;
reacting to impact levels;
providing information to the European Commission, the European Parliament, the Council and other relevant bodies.
Cooperation with neighbouring countries
The EU countries may cooperate with the Agency in the following areas:
cooperation with non-EU countries;
cooperating with the United Kingdom, Ireland and the United States of America;
coordination with the European Union Agency for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms (OLAF).
FROM WHEN DOES IT APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 January 2014.
BACKGROUND
 
Eursur is part of the ‘Schengen acquis’, the common legal instrument for the prevention, detection and control of illegal immigration.
For more information, see:
‘The EU's external borders’ on the European External Borders Agency's website.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Decision 2014/852/EU
1.1.2014
-
OJ L 136 of 1.2.2014, pp. 1-2
Amending act(s)
Entry-exit procedure
Entry and exit procedure
Expiry date
Date of entry into force
Expiration date
Exemptions from transposition:
1 January 2015
1 February 2016
1 March 2020
1 June 2021
1 July 2020
2.6.2022
3.6 2021
4.7.2023
5.8.2025
6.82020
7.9.2021
8.82120
Last updated: 27.07.2014



Summary 106:
Eurodac: access to Eurodac for the prevention, detection and investigation of terrorist offences and serious criminal offences (Recast Regulation (EU) 2018/852)
EurodAC: access and exchange of data for the purpose of preventing, detecting and investigating terrorist offences
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 852/2014 on access and sharing of data between national authorities of the Member States of the European Union
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out the conditions and procedures for access by national authorities to Eurodatacontrol (Eurodatac) and Europol’s (Europol) automated fingerprinting identification systems.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to national authorities in the EU that are designated by the European Commission to:
request EurodatAControl data;
compare Eurodatatic data with other national fingerprinting systems;
check that Eurodatasheets are interoperable;
assist in the exchange of information between national security and law enforcement authorities.
The competent national authority in each Member State must designate a national authority that is authorised to request Eurodatatics data. This authority is responsible for:
collecting Eurodatadata;
checking the data; and
checking that the data are compatible with the national systems of other Member States.
National authorities must keep a list of the designated authorities and the national access points that they designate.
Eurodatabases must be secure and take place electronically.
Each Member State has to set up and maintain a central system to store and exchange data.
identify the data it receives and transmit it to the national authority of the country of origin.
When a Member State receives a request from another Member State, it must:
check the data against the national database;
ensure that the requested data is compatible with national databases in the Member State of origin;
make a copy of the data and send it to that country;
use the data to establish the identity of the subject of the request.
In addition, the national authorities must ensure that the information they receive is:
secure;
validated;
authentic;
transmitted in a secure format;
inform the Central System as soon as possible and no later than after 72 hours of the erasure of data, for the reason specified in Article 2(c) of this regulation;
notify all Member States in the event of a hit with data which they transmitted relating to data relating to the data referred to in Article 9(1) or 14(1).
The Central System must automatically transmit the hit or the negative result of the comparison to the Member state of origin, which must inform the country in which the data came from.
Member States must also ensure that:
the national authority which received the request for Eurodatascrypt data has the necessary technical infrastructure to process the request;
the requested data are stored and transmitted securely;
all communication between the designated authority, the verifying authorities, the National Access Points and the central system is secure and takes place electronically;
information exchanged between the competent national authorities and national security authorities is encrypted;
national security authorities must cooperate to this end;
National supervisory authorities must: ensure that national data exchange systems are secure and that national security information systems are secured;monitor and evaluate the application of the regulation;ensure the security of Eurodatastore data;monitor, evaluate and monitor the security and integrity of national data systems;monitor the implementation of the regulations.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
The Regulation has applied since 1 July 2014.
BACKGROUND
   
Eurodata was established under Decision 2008/615/JHA (see summary).
For more information, see:
‘Eurodatatics’ on Europol's website.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 802/2014/EU of 21 June 2014 on access, sharing and exchanging data between Member States’ national authorities for the purposes of preventing and detecting terrorist offences or of other serious crimes (recast) (OJ L 127, 1.7.2014, pp. 1-2)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EEC, EEA) No802/2014 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
 
  бартанска гранда нарка (European Commission)
Decision 2008/614/EU on the application by the Commission of Decision 2009/854/JH of the Council and of the Representatives of the Governments of Member States to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions of the EU on the European Arrest Warrant for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms of the Union (O



Summary 107:
Protected designations of origin and protected geographical indications and traditional specialities
Protected names of origin* and protected names of geographical indications*
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 596/2006 — protected names and protected designations
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
   
 
It aims to ensure that protected names* and geographical indications (designations* of origin) are used fairly and in order to prevent practices liable to mislead consumers.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to products originating in the European Union (EU). It does not apply to:
products originating in non-EU countries;
traditional specialities*;
products produced in mountain areas.
It applies to all products originating from the territory of the EU.
Protection of origin
The protected name and geographical indication must be registered in the EU country of origin. It must be accompanied by:
the name and address of the applicant group and of the authorities or, if available, the place of production;
proof that the product is protected in that country;
a description of the characteristics of the product;
evidence of the production methods used;
the product’s provenance;
information on the quality of the products.
The European Commission may adopt implementing acts laying down rules on the use of the protected name or geographical indication. These must be adopted by the Commission in accordance with the rules laid down in the annex to the regulation. The Commission may also adopt delegated acts concerning the establishment of the methods of production and other criteria relevant for the application of the protection of the name or the protected geographical indication or the traditional speciality.
Exemptions
The Commission may exclude certain products from the scope of the regulation if they do not meet the conditions laid down by this regulation. For example, the Commission may decide to exclude products originating outside the EU from its scope.
In addition, the regulation does not cover certain categories of products, such as:
food and feed;
medicinal products;
animal feed and feed additives;
live animals;
seeds and fodder;
means of transport;
surgical products; and
products intended for human consumption.
EU countries must ensure that the protected names or geographical indications do not become generic.
Cancellation of protected names
An application for the cancellation of a protected name of origin or protected designation must be submitted to the national authorities of the country concerned, in compliance with minimum common provisions, including a national opposition procedure. The application must include at least:
a copy of the application and the name of the person or group responsible for its protection;
an explanation of the reasons for the request for cancellation;
procedures for the withdrawal of the designation or designation;
documents relating to the application for cancellation.
If an application is rejected, the applicant must provide proof that the protection is not justified by the following reasons:
it does not comply with the requirements laid down under the regulation;
it is contrary to public policy;
there is no reason to believe that it is protected by the protected designation or designation.
An EU country may withdraw a protected designation or designation if it considers that it does not correspond to the public policy objectives of the European Commission or the EU as a whole.
National authorities may refuse to accept an application if they consider that it:
does not conform with the general principles of EU law;
is contrary to the principles of public policy or to the general interests of the Union; or
is likely to mislead the public.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULATIONS APPLY?

It has applied since 1 January 2007.
BACKGROUND
  The regulation is part of a package of measures designed to improve the quality and traceability of food and feed.
For more information, see:
European Food Safety Authority (EFSA).
KEY TERMS
* Protected name: a registered name or designation of origin, a geographical indication, a traditional name or a traditional designation, or a speciality, which is used to describe a product originating in an EU country.
* Traditionally speciality: a product which is known as a product of a particular geographical origin or a specific geographical area.
MAIN DOCUMENT
 			
Commission Regulation (EU) No 550/2006 of 21 December 2006 on protected names (OJ L 131, 24.12.2006, pp. 1-2)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EC, No 550) have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 04.02.2016



Summary 108:
EU rules on oil tanker age and design requirements (MARPOL 73/78)
EU rules in respect of oil tankage
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 596/2013 — rules on the age and type of oil tanker
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to ensure that oil tankers entering into ports and offshore terminals or anchoring in an area under the jurisdiction of EU countries and oil tanker flying the flag of EU States comply with Regulation 20 of Annex I to MARPOL 73/1978 as revised in 2004 by Resolution MEPC 117(52) adopted by the IMO’s Marine Environment Protection Committee (MEPC) in order to reduce the risk of accidental oil pollution in European waters.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to:
double-hull or equivalent design requirements by single-Hull oil tank ships, irrespective of their flag, which enter or leave a port or offshore terminal or anchor in areas under EU countries’ jurisdiction;
any oil tanker above 15 years of age, regardless of its flag, that enters or leaves ports or offshore terminals.
It does not apply to oil tanker carrying heavy grade oil, unless such tanker is a double-HULL oil tanker.
Exemptions for Category 2 and Category 3 crude oil tanker:
the regulation allows for an exception to the phasing-out of Category 2* and category 3 oil tanker rules, under certain circumstances, beyond the time limit of their phasing out.
EU countries may decide to allow Category 2 or Category 3 tanker rules to continue to operate for a limited number of years.
The EU countries may also decide to extend the duration of the exemption for Category 1 and Category 2 crude oil ships.
National authorities must:
ensure that:
all oil tanker vessels flying their flag are registered in the EU country in which they are registered;
have a certificate of registration issued by the International Maritime Organization (IMO);
operate under the authority of an EU country;
apply the conditions laid down in Annex II of the regulation;
carry heavy oil;
notify the European Commission of any changes to the conditions of operation of a tanker;
check that a tanker complies with the condition assessment scheme referred to in Annex III.
Compliance with the requirements
A single- or double- hull oil tanker of less than 15 years’ age must comply with the following requirements:
it must be designed and built in accordance with the MARPOL requirements;
it is not allowed to enter, leave, anchor or tranship oil terminals under its jurisdiction, on the basis of Regulation 20.5 of Annex II;
its crew must be at least 18 years old;
the vessel must be equipped with the necessary equipment and equipment.
In addition, it must have the following equipment:
a fuel tank;
a propulsion system;
an emergency escape system; and
a fire extinguisher.
No oil tanker is allowed to carry heavy oil unless it is a heavy-duty oil tanker, unless it meets the requirements of Regulation 19.2 of Annex III of MARPOL.
FROM WHEN DOES THE REGULE APPLY?
   
It applies from 1 June 2013. EU countries had to incorporate it into national law by 1 June 2014.
BACKGROUND
 
The European Maritime Safety Agency (EMSA) is responsible for the management of the maritime environment and for the implementation of maritime law in the European Union (EU).
For more information, see:
‘Oil tanker age’ on the EMSA’ website.
MAIN DOCUMENT
 			
Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 550/2013 of 21 May 2013 on the application of Regulation (EC) No 20/2013 on the date and type-approval of the age of oiltankage requirements (recast) (OJ L 347, 21.5.2013, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments and corrections to Regulation (Euratom), as amended by Decision 2014/852/EU have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
Commission Implementing Decision (EU), Euratom of 20 May 2014 on the regulation on the approval of the port and offshore terminal design requirements for oil tankages (COM(2014) 597/2014) (Official Journal C 202, 20.6.2014)
Commission Delegated Regulation (UE) 2014/941 of 20 April 2014 on implementing Regulation (CE) No 10/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the harmonisation of the laws of the Member States relating to the operation of the ports and the offshore terminals of Member States and on the registration of the ships flying the national flag ( Official Journal C 203, 20 April2014).
Directive 2014/10/EU of the United Nations Convention on the



Summary 109:
Financial supervision: European supervisory authority (ESA) (European Banking Authority)
Financial supervision : European banking authority (EBA)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 596/2008 establishing the European Banking Authority
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
   
 
It establishes the European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA), the European Union’s (EU) single supervisory body.
It aims to ensure that the European financial system is fair and balanced.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The ESCA is responsible for supervising all financial institutions in the EU, including banks, insurance companies and investment funds. It has the following tasks:
supervising the prudential supervision of financial institutions;
providing guidance and recommendations for financial institutions to take account of the systemic risk posed by them;
ensuring that financial institutions comply with EU law;
assisting national supervisory authorities in preparing equivalence decisions relating to supervisory regimes in non-EU countries in accordance with the acts referred to in Article 1(2) of TFEU (see summary).
The ESMA has a Board of Supervisors. It is chaired by a Chairperson appointed by the Commission. The Commission appoints the Chairperson on the basis of merit, skills, knowledge of the financial sector and experience relevant to financial supervision and regulation. The Chairperson is assisted by a Joint Committee on Financial Conglomerates. The Joint Committee may establish further Sub-Committees.
The Commission may decide to admit observers.
Establishment of the ESCAgency
Establishing ESCAESA has a budget of €2.5 billion for the period 2014-2020. The budget includes:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
It entered into force on 1 July 2008.
BACKGROUND
  The ESCA was established to:
ensure the soundness of the EU financial system;
facilitate cooperation between EU countries’ financial authorities;
improve the functioning of the supervisory systems;
support the stability of financial markets in Europe.
For more information, see:
European financial supervision (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Supervisory authority: a body responsible for the supervision of all the financial institutions of the Union.
* Financial institution: a financial institution that is regulated by the EU or its Member States.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Commission Decision 2008/596/EC of 27 June 2008 establishing the Financial Supervisory Authority of the European Community (EASA)
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Decision 2008/525/EC
1 July 2008
-
OJ L 127 of 27.7.2008
-   The European Commission may extend this period by 1 month.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
Council Decision 2001/98/EC on the establishment of the Single Supervisory Mechanism (SMSM) (OJ C 202 of 28.6.2001)
Regulatory technical standards (Regulation) No 652/2008 of the Council and of the Commission on the application of Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1099/2008 on the supervision and prudential oversight of financial instruments (Regulatory Technical Standards).
Regulations (EC), Euratom and Euratom (Regulations) No 752/2009 and (EU Regulation) No 852/2013 on the harmonisation and harmonisation of the rules on financial institutions and on prudential risk management.
Commission Implementing Regulation (Euratom) 2015/852 of 27 May 2015 on the coordination of the supervision, supervision and oversight of prudential risks of financial products and services and on financial services and amending Regulations (EC and Euromonitor) No 952/2010 and (EC).
Commission Regulation (EU, Euromonitors) No 1252/2014 of 27 April 2014 on the implementation of the Financial Stability and Supervision Directive.
See consolidated version.
last update 04.02.2020(1) The United Kingdom withdraws from the EU.



Summary 110:
Equal treatment of EU workers in the territory of another EU country: employment and employment and equal treatment
Equality of treatment of European Union (EU) workers
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 596/2011 — equal treatment of workers in EU countries
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes a system of equal treatment for workers from other EU countries who wish to work in the EU.
It codifies and repeals Council Regulation (Euratom) No 852/2004.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to permanent, seasonal and frontier workers, as well as those who pursue their activities for the purpose of providing services.
Eligibility for employment
Nationals of EU countries have the right to take up available employment in any EU country with the same priority as nationals of that country. This right does not depend on medical, vocational or other criteria which are discriminatory on grounds of nationality by comparison with those applied to nationals of the other EU country who wish the same activity.
The right to employment does not apply to:
nationals of one EU State for a post in another EU State;
national workers who are employed in a non-EU country for the purposes of providing a service;
non-EU workers working for a service that is provided by an EU country.
Employment and equality of treatment
National workers enjoy the same rights and benefits as national workers in matters of housing, including ownership of the housing he needs.
They enjoy all the same social and tax advantages that national workers enjoy, including:
access to the same health and pension schemes;
the same working conditions as nationals;
equal access to housing and working conditions;
equivalence in terms of working hours and pay;
health and safety;
equality of treatment with regard to working conditions, including working hours, pay, working conditions and working time;
protection of workers’ rights, including protection against discrimination;
social and tax benefits, including equal treatment as nationals.
Rights and benefits of employment
A worker who is a national of a Member State and who is employed in another Member State is entitled to the following rights:
full employment;
full and equal access to health, safety and protection;
compulsory paid leave;
time off;
reciprocal access to paid holidays and leave.
EU countries must regularly send to the specialist services of other Member States and to the European Coordination Office the following information:
the number of vacancies which could be filled by nationals of other EU States;
details of vacancies addressed to third countries;
information, by region and by branch of activity, on applicants who have declared themselves actually willing to accept employment in another country. Such information must be brought up to date regularly.
An Advisory Committee
The Advisory Committee is composed of representatives of trade unions and employers’ associations. It meets at least twice a year and is chaired by the European Commission. The term of office of the members and their alternates is 2 years. It may be amended by the Council. The committee may adopt opinions on issues of particular interest to workers from the other countries. It is assisted by expert advisers.
References
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Council Regulation (EC).
-
OJ L 347 of 21.11.2011
RELATED ACTS
Council Decision 2011/852/EC of 21 March 2011 on the establishment of an Advisory Committee on Equal Treatment of Workers in Employment and Employment and Equal Opportunities for Service Providers in the European Union.
Council Directive 2011/9/EU on the improvement of the conditions of access to employment for service providers in the field of vocational training.
Last updated: 27.07.2011



Summary 111:
Ozone-depleting potential: Protocol on the protection of the ozone (Protocol on the Protection of the Earth’s Ozone)
Ozone - Depleting Potential
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 596/2003 recasting the Montreal Protocol
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It recasts and repeals the Protocol of the Hague Convention on the Prohibition of Pollution from the Emissions of Pollutants (Ozone Protocol).
It aims to ensure that the Protocol is fully implemented.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The protocol applies to all substances that have a potential to deplete the ozone layer. It does not apply to substances that are used as feedstock or process agents.
It does not cover substances used as process agents, such as paints, solvents, paints, paints and varnishes.
The annexes to the regulation set out the conditions for the placing on the market of controlled substances for essential laboratory and analytical uses, and processes in which controlled substances may be used. These conditions are laid down in Annexes I and II of the regulation.
EU countries must ensure that:
the substances concerned are destroyed using approved destruction methods;
the quantities and quantities of the substances concerned must be kept under control;
manufacturers, agents, distributors and importers must keep records of their products and equipment;
they must keep a register of the quantities, quantities and types of substances they have placed on sale.
they may not place on the substances on sale in non-refillable containers, except for laboratory or analytical uses.
the quantity and type of substances must not exceed the limits set out in Annex III of the protocol.
In addition, the annexes set out:
a list of the chemicals that are subject to the protocol;
annexes to Annexes IV and V set out conditions for placing on sale the substances;
a description of the methods of destruction and the quantities of substances to be destroyed.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECAST APPLY?
The regulation applies from 1 January 2004.
BACKGROUND
The Montreal Protocol is the cornerstone of the global effort to protect the environment against the adverse effects of ozone depletion. It aims to protect human health and the environment by:
reducing the ozone-degradation potential of certain substances, in particular those that have been shown to have a significant effect on human health;
protecting the environment and human health by reducing the ozone depletion potential of some substances.
For more information, see:
The Ozone Protocol (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Controlled substances: substances which have a potentially harmful effect on the environment.
ACT
Council Regulation (EU) No 550/2003 of 21 December 2003 recasting and recasting Council Regulation (EC).
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Decision 2004/8/EC
1.1.2004
-
OJ L 347 of 21.12.2003
RELATED ACTS
Council Decision 2004/9/EC of 27 November 2004 on the conclusion of the Montreal protocol on the prohibition of ozone-depleted substances (OJ C 202 of 27.11.2004).
last update 14.02.2016



Summary 112:
European Union Agency for the Protection of the Environment (EURE) (codified version)
European Union agency for the protection of the environment (Eureka)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001 on the European Union’s Environmental Protection Agency
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes a European Union (EU) Environment Protection Agency.
KEY POINTS
The purpose of the EUREKA is to:
ensure that the EU has a high level of environmental protection;
provide the European Commission with the necessary information on the environmental situation in the EU;
assist the Member States in the implementation of their national environmental policies and programmes;
support the development of new environmental measurement methods and instruments.
The regulation sets out the tasks and responsibilities of the agency.
EUREKA:
is responsible for:
collecting, analysing and disseminating environmental information;
monitoring and analysing environmental phenomena;
developing and sharing information on environmental problems;
coordinating the activities of the national environmental information networks;
ensuring that national authorities have access to the information it collects and disseminates;
carrying out research and development activities in the areas covered by its mandate.
It:
cooperates with other EU bodies and programmes, notably the Joint Research Centre, the Statistical Office of the European Communities (Eurostat) and the European Environment Agency (EEA);
provides technical assistance to Member States on environmental issues;
is assisted by the European Monitoring Centre (EMC).
is funded by the EU budget.
is independent of the Commission.
Its budget is adopted by the Management Board, which is composed of representatives of Member States and chaired by the Director-General for the Environment.
Budget
The Eureka budget is based on the revenue and expenditure of the EU. It covers the period from 1 January to 31 December of the following year:
the general budget;
the programme for the period 1 January-31 December of that year.
Each year, the management board adopts a draft budget. The draft budget must be approved by the Commission and the Council of Europe. It must contain the following information:
a description of the objectives of the programme;
a list of the priorities for the year;
an estimate of the costs of implementing the programme.
In addition, the budget must include:
details of the sources of revenue, expenditure and revenue-raising measures to be taken;
measures to be made by Member States to ensure that the budget is in balance;
cost-benefit analysis of the expenditure;
procedures to be adopted to ensure the sustainability of the budget; and
the number of employees.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULATIONS APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 January 2002.
BACKGROUND
 
  The EUREka has been operating since 2001.
For more information, see:
The European Union's Environment Agency
The EU's EureKA (European Commission).
MAIN DOCUMENT
 			
Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1024/2001 of 21 December 2001 on the establishment, operation and maintenance of the Environmental Protection Authority (EURA) (OJ L 183, 1.1.2002, pp. 1-2)
Successive amendments to Regulation (Euratom) have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
                   	
                                   
                       Commission Regulation (EU, Eurostat) No 596/2014 of 27 November 2014 on the implementation and management of the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation No 1051/2001 (OJC L 183 of 27.11.2014, pp 1-3)
See consolidated version.
Regulations (EC), Euratom and Euratom of the Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee, the Committee of the Regions and the Committee for the Implementation of the Common Agricultural Policy (ECSP) of the Treaty on European Union and Council Decision No 595/2014/EC on the coordination of the common agricultural policy of the Community and repealing Commission Decision No 1096/2001/EC (ECSC) No 496/2002 (OCTO 2014, 31.12.2014). See consolidated version).
Council Decision No 652/2013/EU of 26 November 2013 on the harmonisation of the laws and regulations of the member States relating to the establishment and operation of the environmental Protection Agency (ECSAP) and repealing Decision No 495/2002/EC and Commission Decision 2006/852/EC. See consolidated copy.
last update 04.02.2020



Summary 113:
Organisations’ environmental performance assessment (EMAS) — European environmental performance management system (EASM) (European Commission)
Organisations' environmental performance measurement system (EEMS)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 596/2004 on the European Environmental Performance Management System (EPSM)
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes a European Union (EU) framework for the management of the environmental performance of organisations.
KEY POINTS
The regulation sets out the rules for the organisation’s management, audit and environmental performance monitoring system, known as EMAS.
It aims to improve the quality of environmental performance in the EU by:
encouraging organisations to participate in EMAS;
providing them with information and assistance on how to improve their environmental performance;
ensuring that organisations’ internal environmental audits are carried out;
establishing an audit programme and audit frequency;
assessing the organisation's environmental performance.
EMAS
It is based on the principle of ‘environmental performance management’. It is designed to:
ensure that organisations have a clear, understandable and unambiguous approach to environmental management;
give an accurate appraisal of the organisation;
allow for a year-on-year comparison to assess the development of the environment performance of the company;
enable for comparison with sector, national or regional benchmarks as appropriate;
make it possible to compare with regulatory requirements as appropriate.
The European Commission is assisted by the Forum of Competent Bodies.
the European Environment Action Programme (EAP) and the Committee of the European Parliament and of the Council.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULATIONS APPLACE APPLY?
The EMAS regulation applies from 1 January 2005.
BACKGROUND
The EASM is part of the ‘six pillars’ of the EU environmental action programme.
For more information, see:
‘Ensuring environmental performance’ on the EAP website.
* KEY TERMS
* Environmental performance management: the way an organisation manages its environment and its resources.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 550/2004/EC of 21 December 2004 establishing the European Environment Performance Management Systems (EESM).
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Decision No 1600/2002/EC
1.1.2005
-
OJ L 94 of 22.1-2005
RELATED DOCUMENTS
   
Regulations (EC), Euratom and Euratom — Implementing Decision (EU, Euram) No 652/2014 on the implementation of the sixth Community environment action programme (Euram) (EURAM) (see summary) (OJ C 202 of 21.6.2014) (See summary)
Regulating (EU), Euram and Euram No 653/2015 on the evaluation of the performance of European environmental management systems (EEMAS). See summary.
Directive 2014/24/EU on the coordination of the activities of the bodies designated or set up to that end by Member States pursuant to Article 32 of the EEA (EEC) (Directive 2013/13/EU) (EC).
Directives 2014/23/EU and 2014/25/EU of the Commission on the monitoring and evaluation of EU environmental performance and on the assessment of the effectiveness of the measures taken to achieve the objectives of the Sixth Community Environment Action Program (EUREA) (EU Environment Action Plan) (Decision 2014/27/EU).
Council Decision 2014/29/EU establishing a framework for monitoring and evaluating the performance and effectiveness of Member States’ national environmental performance reporting systems. The framework sets out:
the criteria for assessing the performance, quality and sustainability of national environmental reporting systems;
the requirements for the evaluation and monitoring of national and regional reporting systems, and
the evaluation of national reporting systems and reporting systems in the field of environmental management.
Commission Implementing Decisions 2014/26/EU, 2014/28/EU (EU Agency for Safety and Health at Work) and 2015/29JEU of 22 July 2014 on the management and environmental reporting system for the European Commission (Euream).
Commission Regulation (EU/2014/EC) 2015/2330 of 22 June 2015 on the verification of the compliance with the requirements of the Regulation (EOSM) and amending Regulations (EUC) No 472/2013, (EEU) No 3111/2014, (EU EPA) No 2111/2015 and (EU EEA) No 1123/2015.
Council Directive 2014/22/EU amending Council Directive 2013/14/EU concerning the monitoring, quality assurance and monitoring systems for the environmental management system for Member States.
Reg



Summary 114:
Protection of spirit drinks and the protection of geographical indications of certain spirit drinks (Regulation (EC) No 552/2008 on the protection, description, presentation and labelling of spirits and their geographical indications
Protection, description or labelling: spirit drinks
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out the rules applicable to the definition, description and presentation, presentation, labelling, and protection of the geographical indications (GIs) of certain spirits and spirit drinks.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to all spirit drinks, regardless of their origin. It does not apply to:
alcoholic spirits;
liqueurs and liqueurs of agricultural origin;
rum-verschnitt;
natural spirits.
It does not cover:
liquor or liqueur-based spirit drinks;
wine and spirit-based wine;
coconut spirit;
pomegranate spirit.
Labelling
A spirit drink must bear the following information:
the name of the product;
the alcoholic strength;
a description of its composition;
an indication of its origin.
This information must be accompanied by a description of the production methods used and by-products formed in fermentation.
In addition, the product may be given special organoleptic characteristics, other than a predominant flavour, such as a fruity or fruity flavour, which are derived from the raw materials used.
The product must be labelled in accordance with the rules laid down in Annex II of the regulation.
Rules on labelling
Labels
The label must contain:
a list of the spirit drink’s alcoholic strength by volume,
the maximum alcoholic strength
the number of litres of the drink
the quantity of alcohol per litre
the volume of alcohol in each volume
the geographical indication
the description of each spirit drink
an explanation of the origin of the alcohol in the product.
FROM WHEN DOES THE REGULE APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 January 2009.
BACKGROUND
The European Commission has adopted a number of rules on the regulation to ensure that spirit drinks comply with the requirements of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU). These include:
rules on the labelling and description of spirits
rules for the description of spirit products
rules concerning the description, description of their presentation and label
rules regarding the protection for geographical indications.
For more information, see:
‘Spirit Drinks’ on the European Commission's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Spirit drink: a spirit drink obtained by maceration of unfermented fruits and berries listed in category 16(a)(ii) or vegetables, nuts, or other plant materials such as herbs or rose petals in ethyl alcohol, followed by distillation at less than 86% vol.
MAIN DOCUMENT
 
Regulation(EC, Euratom) No 550/2008 of the Council and of the Representatives of the Governments of the Member States concerning the regulation relating to the regulation on the definition and presentation of spirits (OJ L 31, 1.2.2008, pp. 1-2)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EC, EEC) no 550/08 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 14.02.2020



Summary 115:
Civil aviation security: common rules for safeguarding passengers and cargo and mail
Civil aviation safety: common standards
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 596/2004 — common rules on civil aviation security
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
   
It sets out common rules to ensure the safety and security of passengers, cargo, baggage and mail on board aircraft.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to all flights within the European Union (EU). It does not apply to flights to non-EU countries.
EU countries must draw up, apply and maintain an airport security programme.
Airport operators must:
ensure that security measures are applied to aircraft, passengers and cabin baggage;
apply alternative security controls to ensure that the security standards applied to the aircraft are not compromised;
monitor and monitor the implementation of the security measures;
have a national quality control programme;
provide the European Commission with a list of the measures they have implemented.
The Commission must publish measures that have a direct impact on passengers.
Penalties must be effective, proportionate and dissuasive for infringements of the regulation.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
It has applied since 1 January 2004.
It applies from 1 January 2005. EU countries had to incorporate it into national law by 1 January 2006.
BACKGROUND
The European Union has adopted a number of measures to improve the security of its aviation sector. These include:
rules on:
airport security;
passenger screening;
aircraft security checks
air traffic management
airports security.
For more information, see:
European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA).
KEY TERMS
* Passenger screening: an inspection of those parts of the interior of the aircraft to which passengers may have had access, in order to detect prohibited articles and unlawful interferences with the aircraft;
Cargo security check: a check of the hold of an aircraft to check that there are no weapons, explosives or other prohibited items on board.
MAIN DOCUMENT
 
  И  хароднарка гранка   баракка
Council Regulation (EU) No 550/2004 of 21 December 2004 on the application of the common basic standards on aviation security (OJ L 127, 1.1.2004, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments and corrections to Regulation (UE) No 530/2004 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
 			
	

		   ‘Directive 2014/35/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2014 on the protection of civil aviation against terrorism and against acts of unlawful interference with civil aircraft’
Directive 2013/23/EU on the prevention and control of terrorist acts and acts of sabotage against civil aircraft and on the establishment of a European Union Aviation Security Agency
Directives 2014/33/EU and 2014/34/EU establishing a European Commission Aviation Security Directorate-General and amending Directive 2013/24/EU (see summary) and Directive 2014/36/EU amending Council Directives 2013/25/EU, 2014/37/EU/EU or 2014/38/EU concerning the establishment and functioning of the Commission Aviation Safety Directorate-GSA and Directive 2015/23.
Directions 2014/30/EU:
establishing a European aviation security office;
implementing the European aviation safety directive;
introducing a European Aviation Security Information System;
ensuring that the Commission publishes a common aviation security information system;
developing a common European aviation information system.
Commission Implementing Decision 2014/29/EU sets out the rules for the establishment, implementation and monitoring of the EU Aviation Safety Director-General’s Aviation Security Department.
Council Implementing Regulation (Euratom) No 652/2014 of 22 December 2014 establishing the European Aviation Safety Information System.
last update 04.01.2016



Summary 116:
Freezing funds and economic resources of those responsible for serious human rights violations or abuses: human rights abuses or bodies responsible for providing support to or otherwise involved in such violations
Freezing of funds and other economic resources for those involved in serious human-rights violations and abuses
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 552/2008 on the freezing of funds, economic resources and the prohibition to make funds available to, or to any natural or legal person, entity or body responsible for, providing support for, or other abuses or abuses, as well as those associated with the natural and legal entities and bodies covered by this regulation
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to protect the EU’s financial and economic interests by:
further restricting access to the EU budget;
restricting the movement of funds or economic resources;
banning the transfer of funds to or from the EU;
imposing sanctions on persons or bodies involved in or associated with these activities.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to:
natural or legal persons, entities or bodies acting through or on behalf of one of the bodies referred to in point (i.e. any person or body acting in accordance with the law of an EU Member State);
any natural, legal or commercial person or business doing business in the territory of the Member State;
any person or legal entity acting in respect of any business done in whole or in part within the Union.
The Member State concerned must inform the other Member States and the Commission of any authorisation granted under the regulation within 2 weeks of the authorisation. The Member States must also inform the Commission and the other EU countries of any changes in the addresses of their websites listed in Annex II.
Member States must notify the Commission, the European Parliament, the Council of the European Union and the European Economic and Social Committee of the EU on any changes to the addresses listed in the annexes to the regulation.
In addition, the Member States are required to inform the European Commission of:
the nature and nature of the frozen funds;
the value of frozen funds and information on authorisations granted by the competent authorities.
Any Member State may freeze the funds of an individual or group of persons or entities if it considers that they have committed or are likely to commit serious violations of human rights or abuses.
If a Member State considers that an individual, group or business has committed or is suspected of committing serious violations, it must immediately freeze all funds and any economic resources belonging to that person or group.
A Member State must also notify the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) of any other Member State that has granted an authorisation under this regulation. The OLAF must inform OLAF of any additional information received directly by the Commission.
Annex III of the regulation contains a list of persons and entities covered by the regulation, including:
individuals, entities, bodies and bodies acting on their own behalf;
legal persons, bodies or businesses acting through, on behalf or on the behalf of any of these bodies;
natural, legal, commercial or commercial persons or businesses, including any natural, commercial persons and businesses, which is incorporated or constituted under the law or rules of an Member State.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 January 2009.
BACKGROUND
 
  барскандранскига нарка грака  года   данка
See also:
‘Frozen funds’ on the OLAF website.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Decision 2008/552/EC of 21 December 2008 on freezing funds and financial resources of, and prohibiting the use of, natural or commercial resources to, persons or legal entities involved in, or otherwise associated with, serious human abuses and abuses, and to any other person or entity responsible for such violations, or any other persons or body associated with such violations.
Successive amendments to Regulation (EU) No 550/2008 have been incorporated in to the original document. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
Council Regulation (EEC) 2015/852/EEC of 25 November 2015 on the prohibition of the use, transfer or transfer of financial resources to persons or companies involved in human rights and abuses and to those associated therewith, or providing any other support to, such persons and companies, or entities, or bodies, involved therewith.
See consolidated version.
last update 04.02.2016



Summary 117:
EU military operation in the Mediterranean (EUNAVFOR MED IRINI)
EU military mission in Libya
SUMMARY OF:
Decision (CFSP) 2020/472 on a European Union military operation on the Mediterranean
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DECISION?
It authorises the European Union (EU) to provide military assistance to the United Nations (UN) Mission in Libya (UNMIL) and the International Criminal Court (ICC) in order to prevent the illicit export of arms and related materiel from Libya.
KEY POINTS
The decision authorises an EU military operation to:
contribute to the implementation of the UN arms embargo on Libya with aerial, satellite and maritime assets;
provide training and capacity building to the Libyan Coast Guard and Navy;
ensure the proper functioning of Libya’s maritime infrastructure;
carry out inspections and follow-up operations in the area of illicit oil and gas exports.
The mission is funded by the EU budget. It is managed by the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy (HR).
The High Representative is responsible for the operation and its strategic direction. The High Representative reports to the Political and Security Committee (PSC), which is composed of representatives of the EU countries, the UN and the ICC.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS DECISION APPLY?
This decision applies from 31 March 2020.
BACKGROUND
The EU has been involved in a number of military operations in Libya since 2011, including:
Operation SOPHIA (SOPHIPHIA) in the Southern Central Mediterranean;
EUFORCE FOR MEDINI in the Western Mediterranean (EURMIRINI (Eur9 837 800).
For more information, see:
European Union military operations (European External Action Service).
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Decision (EU/472/2020/472
31.3.2020
-
OJ L 101 of 3.4.2020.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
Council Regulation (EC) No 596/2013/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 on the European External Action Services’ participation in the EU military operations against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction in the western Mediterranean and repealing Council Decision (EEC) 2015/528 (see summary).
See consolidated version.
Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 496/2014 on the common costs of the common military costs of EU operations. See summary.
last update 14.02.2020



Summary 118:
Fraudulent documents: European image archiving system (FADO) (European Union Agency for the Operational Management of Large-Scale IT Systems in the Area of Freedom, Security and Justice)
Document fraud can undermine the internal security of the European Union (EU) and undermine the Schengen acquis. This is why the European Image Archiving System, known as FADO, was set up to facilitate the exchange of information on authentic documents and on known methods of falsification between Member State authorities.
ACT
Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2018/1726 of 14 November 2018 on the establishment of a European Image archiving System for Authentic Documents.
SUMMARY
WHAT DOES THIS REGULATION DO?
It establishes an EU-wide system for the storage and management of authentic and false official documents.
It sets up a system to store and exchange information on documents that have been forged, counterfeited or falsified.
KEY POINTS
The system is designed to:
ensure that authentic documents are kept for at least 5 years;
provide the European Border and Coast Guard Agency (the ‘Agency’) with the information on the documents referred to in the first subparagraph of the regulation;
protect the security and integrity of the EU’s external borders;
facilitate the sharing of information between Member States and the EU Agency for Law Enforcement Cooperation.
The Agency is responsible for the operation of the system and the management of the information it holds. It has the responsibility for:
operating the system;
ensuring that the system is up-to-date;
collecting, storing and exchanging information on official documents;
monitoring and analysing the data it holds;
assisting the European Commission in the implementation of delegated acts.
FROM WHEN DOES IT APPLY?
The regulation applies from 1 January 2019.
BACKGROUND
The European Image Archive System (FAS) is a large-scale IT system set up by the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission. It is the first of its kind in the world.
For more information, see:
‘Facing the threat of fraud’ on the FAS website.
MAIN DOCUMENT
   
Regulation (EU), Euratom of the Parliament and of the Council of 11 November 2018 establishing a European image archive system for authentic documents (European Image Archive System) (OJ L 333, 9.12.2018, pp. 1-3)
Successive amendments and corrections to the regulation have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
 
Commission Implementing Regulation (EC) No 1987/533/OJ of 27 October 2017 on the European Security and Civil Protection Agency (ESPO) (see summary).
last update 04.02.2019



Summary 119:
Access to, or the pursuit of, regulated professions: justification and proportionality of rules
Access to and pursuit of regulated professions
SUMMARY OF:
Directive 2005/36/EC on the regulation of the professions
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DIRECTIVE?
It aims to improve the quality of life of EU citizens by:
improving access to and access to regulated professions;
ensuring that the quality and safety of these professions is guaranteed;
protecting the health of the public.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The directive applies to the following professions:
physicians;
medical professionals;
social workers;
veterinary workers.
It does not apply to:
administrative professions.
The scope of the directive is limited to the professions listed in the directive’s Annex II.
Access
EU countries must ensure that the regulation does not restrict access to or access to the regulated professions. It must be based on the following criteria:
the importance of the objectives pursued;
the risks to the public interest; and
the expected gains.
Proportionality
The regulation must be proportionate to the importance of these objectives.
In addition, EU countries must take account of the nature of the risks related to these objectives, in particular the risks to service recipients, including consumers, to professionals or to third parties.
Exemptions
The European Union (EU) Member States may exclude certain professions from the scope of this directive if they consider that they do not meet the objectives of the regulation.
Regulation of certain professions may be justified by the need to protect the public health or the safety of the health or safety of third parties or the public, or for the protection of the environment or the environment.
If the regulation is not proportionate, it should not be applied.
Member States must also ensure that:
there is no restriction to access to, access to professions which are not regulated by the regulation;
there are no restrictions on access to a profession which is not regulated.
There should be no restriction on the access of professionals to professions that are regulated by Regulation (EC) No 552/2004 on the establishment of a regulated profession.
References
Act
Entry into force
Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Commission Implementing Decision 2005/35/EC
-
- The date of transposition of the Directive in Member States.
REFERENCES
Act of the European Parliament and of the Council
Entry and transposition into force - Date of application in the member States
Directives 2005/37/EC and 2005/34/EC of the Member State concerned
-   
OJ L 347 of 27.11.2005
RELATED ACTS
 
Report from the Commission to the Council on the implementation of Council Directive 2005/38/EC establishing a database of professions (COM(2005) 552) on the application of the Charter of Fundamental Rights to the profession of health and the pursuit thereof) (OJ C 202 of 28.10.2005)
Commission Delegated Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2015/849 of 27 November 2015 on the exchange of information on the activities of the Commission in the field of health, the environment and the social protection of persons in the fields of medicine and the provision of medicinal products.
last update 04.01.2016



Summary 120:
Fishery management of demersal stocks and by-catch stocks (Regulation (EU) No 1380/2013)
Fishing of demerals
SUMMARY OF:
Directive 2014/35/EU on the conservation of fishery resources and the protection of marine ecosystems through technical measures
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to ensure that the EU’s fisheries and marine ecosystems are protected against overfishing, illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing and destructive fishing practices, in order to restore fish stocks, in the shortest time feasible, at least to levels that can produce MSY as determined by their biological characteristics.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to:
fishery resources, i.e. the stocks of fish, crustaceans, mussels, clams, anchovies, swordfish, porpoises, porbeagle species, muskellunge species, molluscs, muskrat species, porcine species and porpoise species.
It does not apply to the following:
by-catch (by-fishing)
fishing of fish caught by non-EU countries’ fishing fleets;
bycatch of marine mammals (e.g. sharks, skates and skates).
By-catch of certain species, such as swordfish and mussels.
Fisheries and marine mammals that are taken in mixed fisheries.
The European Commission is empowered to adopt delegated acts in the following areas:
management of by-caught fish stocks;
the management of fish stocks that are caught in mixed fishing;
monitoring of marine biodiversity;
management and monitoring of marine life and ecosystems;
reciprocal management of marine resources.
Specific conservation measures
The Commission may adopt specific conservation measures:
when scientific advice indicates that remedial action is required for the conservation or re-establishment of any of the stocks referred to in Article 1(4) of this regulation, or when the spawning stock biomass and the abundance of Norway lobster stocks are below MSY B;
when the biomass and abundance of the species for which are covered by the regulation for a given year are below the maximum sustainable yield (MSY B), the Commission may take the necessary measures to restore the stocks to MSY levels.
Where the Commission takes into account a significant impact of recreational fisheries in the framework of the fishing opportunities for a certain stock, it may set a TAC for commercial catches which takes account of the volume of recreational catches and/or to adopt other measures restricting recreational fisheries such as bag limits and closure periods.
Regional cooperation
The EU and its Member States are required to cooperate in the implementation of the regulation.
FROM WHEN DOES THE DIRECTIVE APPLY?
The directive applies from 1 January 2014.
BACKGROUND
The United Nations Summit on Sustainable Development held in New York in 2015 called on the EU and Member States to effectively regulate harvesting, to end illegal fishing, illegal fishing and unreported fishing and to implement science-based management plans.
For more information, see:
‘Fishing for sustainable fishing’ on the European Commission's website.
* KEY TERMS
* By-catch: the catch of fish that is not intended for commercial use.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 1410/2014 of 21 December 2014 on the Conservation and Protection of Fishery Resources and the Protection of Marine Ecosystems through Technical Measures (Codification Regulation) (OJ L 304, 28.12.2014, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (Euratom) 2014/34/EU have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
Commission Implementing Regulation (EC) No 676/2007 of 18 December 2007 laying down the rules on the management of fisheries and the conservation and protection of Marine ecosystems through Technical measures (Codified version) (Official Journal C 202, 20.11.2007)
Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2007 establishing the European Union Fisheries and Aquaculture Committee (OJC) and repealing Regulations (EC, EC, EC) No 1242/2006 and (EC), EC, EFTA, EC and EFTA) No 552/2008 (O J L 347, 20 December 2007, and (EU), EC and EC) Regulations (EEC, EFSA, EC), EC (EC).
Commission implementing Regulation (C) No 752/2007 laying down rules for the management and conservation of fisheries, the conservation, the protection and sustainable use of marine organisms and the sustainable management of the marine environment through technical means (Oj L 294, 21.12-20.2007, pp 1-2)
Commission Regulation (CFSP) No 852/2006 laying down detailed rules on fishery management and the management



Summary 121:
Convention on the Law of the Sea — rules on the conservation and management of the living resources of the sea (SPRFMO Convention Area)
CONVENTION ON THE LAW OF THE SEA: rules on protecting the marine environment
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 1005/2008 on the Convention on the Conservation and Management of the Living Resources of the Seas
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes the rules and procedures for the conservation, management and monitoring of marine resources in the Convention Area of the Mediterranean Sea (SMSO Convention Area).
It aims to ensure that the EU’s participation in the SPRFMO Convention area is respected.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The convention area covers:
the Mediterranean Sea;
the Black Sea and the Black Sea; and
the North Pacific Ocean.
It is governed by the International Maritime Organization (IMO).
The EU is a contracting party to the convention area and is a member of the International Commission for the Conservation of the Marine Living Resources (ICCNR).
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
The regulation has applied since 1 January 2009.
BACKGROUND
The SPRFsMO is a multiannual organisation established under the United Nations Convention (UN) on the law of the seas. It is responsible for:
protecting and managing marine resources;
collecting and analysing the catch and effort data;
monitoring the transhipment of fishery products originating from such resources.
The European Union (EU) participates in the convention.
For more information, see:
‘Fishery products’ on the European Commission's website.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Commission Regulation (EC: No 552/2008/EC of 21 December 2008 on the implementation of the convention and on the monitoring of transshipment of fishing products in the MARPOLITICAL REGULATIONS
 
Council Decision 98/392/EC
Decision (EU):
1 January 2009 on the signing, on behalf of the EU, and provisional application of the Convention relating to the conservation of the marine resources (OJ L 294, 28.12.2008, pp. 1-2)
Council Regulation (EU: No 605/2009)
1.1.2009 on the coordination of the activities of the Commission of the European Maritime Safety Agency (EMSA)
2.2.2010 on the harmonisation of the laws and regulations of the Member States relating to fishing vessels
3.3.2011 on the registration of fishing vessels.
4.4.2013 on the exchange of information between the Commission and the Commission-level national authorities.
5.5.2014 on the sharing of information among the national authorities of the contracting parties.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force
Deadline for transposition in the Member State
Official Journal
Commission Implementing Decision (EU).
-
OJ C 202, 1.1, 2009
Last updated: 21.01.2009



Summary 122:
Control of cash entering and leaving the European Union (EU) — rules on the declaration of cash and the exchange of information between EU countries and non-EU countries
Control of money and the exchanging of information among EU countries
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 1889/2005 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 October 2005 on controls of cash
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to ensure that cash is declared to the competent authorities of the EU country through which it is entering or leaving the EU and make it available to them for control.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to cash:
cash originating in the EU;
cash intended for the financing of criminal activities;
money intended for terrorist financing.
It does not apply to cash intended for:
the financing of terrorism;
the funding of organised crime;
drug trafficking;
human trafficking; or
money laundering.
The competent authorities must:
make a declaration of the origin, destination, economic provenance and intended use of the cash;
make it available for control;
keep a copy of the declaration for at least 3 years;
ensure that the declaration is delivered to the authorities in the country of origin;
temporary detention of cash by competent authorities.
Exchange of information with third countries
EU countries may exchange information between a competent authority of a Member State or the Commission and the authorities of a third country provided that there are appropriate safeguards.
In addition to the list of information to be exchanged, the authorities may also exchange information on:
on the origin and destination of cash; and
the identity of the sender or the recipient.
the nature and purpose of cash.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDITION APPLY?
The original regulation entered into force on 1 July 2005. It has been amended several times, most recently in 2017.
BACKGROUND
The introduction of a new EU law on the control of cash is part of a package of measures designed to protect the EU’s financial interests.
For more information, see:
‘Controls of cash’ on the European Commission's website.
MAIN DOCUMENTRY INTO FORCE
 
Council Regulation (EC: No 89/2005/EC
1.1.2005
-
OJ L 309 of 25.11.2005, pp. 1-3
RELATED DOCUMENTS
Commission Implementing Regulation (EU):
Directive 2015/849/EU on the exchange and sharing of information concerning cash related to criminal activities which adversely affect the financial interests of the Union (see summary) (see amending acts) (See amending act(s) below).
Directives (EU: 2015/947/EU, 2016/946/EU and 2017/948 on the sharing and exchange of data on cash and on exchange of technical assistance between the European Financial Intelligence Unit (Europol) and the European Anti-Fraud Office (Eurojust).
Council Decision (EU, Euratom) 2017/848 of 27 June 2017 on the establishment of a European Financial Investigation Unit (Euratom).
Last updated: 27.08.2017



Summary 123:
Energy and climate change: EU energy and climate progress report
Energy, climate change and climate report
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 517/2014 on the EU’s long-term strategy for energy
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out the rules for the reporting and reporting of energy, climate and climate data to the European Union (EU).
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to:
energy security;
the internal energy market;
energy efficiency; decarbonisation;
research, innovation and competitiveness.
EU countries must:
report to the Commission every 2 years on the progress they have made in achieving their objectives;
report annually on the policies and measures adopted or intended to be adopted and implemented to achieve these objectives.
The data must cover all fuel and energy placed on the market in each EU country and be available to the public by 30 September every year.
Each EU country must ensure that:
the Commission publishes an annual report on the implementation of its national energy strategy;
it publishes an integrated national energy progress report every 3 years;
inform the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions of the measures it has adopted to achieve its objectives and the progress it has made;
provide the Commission with a report on its annual progress report;
publish an annual energy efficiency report.
In addition, EU countries must provide the Commission and the European Commission with:
a report on energy efficiency and climate action plan for the period from 1 January 2021 to 31 December 2030;
a national report on climate and energy policy;
an annual energy report on progress made by EU countries;
reports on the results of the national climate action plans.
FROM WHEN DOES THE REGULE APPLY?
 
It has applied since 30 September 2014 and had to become law in the EU countries by 31 December 2016.
BACKGROUND
   
The EU is committed to achieving a low-carbon energy economy by 2050.
For more information, see:
‘The Energy Union’ (European Commission).
* KEY TERMS
* CO2 emissions: total concentration of GHGs in the atmosphere.
* GHG: the total amount of greenhouse gases (GHGs) emitted into the atmosphere by burning, burning, producing, transporting, storing or using energy.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Commission Implementing Regulation (EC) No 223/2009
30.9.2009
-
OJ L 304 of 30.9., 30.10.2009, pp. 1-5
RELATED ACTS
Regulations (EC, Euratom) No 652/2014 and (EC), Euratom No 653/2014 of the European Atomic Energy Community and (Euratom) Implementing Decision 2014/852/EU of the Commission on the European Energy Union (see summary).
Regulatory (EC). Euratom: Euratom (European Agency for Energy and Climate Change).
Directive 2014/9/EU on the Energy Union.
Directives 2014/10/EU and 2014/11/EU establishing the European Green Deal.
Decision 2014/13/EU setting the European Framework for Climate Change.
Commission Delegated Regulation (European Parliament and of the Council of 21 December 2014 on the energy sector.
last update 04.01.2016



Summary 124:
EU rules on substances listed in Annex III of the Convention on Substances of Pollution from Chemicals (COPD) (Recast) (OJ L 334, 17.12.2016)
EU rules covering substances of Pollutants listed in Appendix III of The Hague Convention
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) 2017/852 — Listing of substances of pollutants (Annex III)
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out rules on the listing and placing on the market and use of certain substances of pollution from chemicals in the European Union (EU).
It repeals Regulation (EC) No 182/2011.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to:
any substance listed in the annex to the convention;
any substances that are present in mixtures or articles in the EU’s internal market;
waste consisting of, containing or contaminated by any substance listed.
It does not apply to wastes and lead-containing leaching residues of the non-ferrous metal production.
Listing
Annex I lists the substances to which the EU must apply its obligations under the convention.
The list includes:
the substances to be listed;
the quantities to be released by the EU countries;
measures to identify, characterise and minimise, with a view to eliminating where feasible as soon as possible, the total releases of these substances;
information to the European Commission, the European Agency for Safety and Health at Work (EASW) and the European Monitoring Centre (EMHCWaste Management).
EU countries must keep inventories of substances in their inventories, as well in advance of their introduction on the EU market.
National authorities must ensure that the inventories are kept up-to-date and that they contain information on:
total releases of substances listed by EU countries,
the total releases from substances in Annex I and II;
total annual releases from Annex III as recorded in inventories drawn up in accordance with their national implementation plans.
In addition, EU countries must:
make available to the Commission and the other EU countries all relevant data on total releases;
ensure that national authorities keep a record of total releases and total annual waste from substances listed. They must also ensure that these data are accessible to the public.
Each EU country must also:
keep a register of the substances in its inventories;
keep an inventory of waste and waste-contaminants;
establish a committee to monitor the implementation of the regulation;
draw up, implement and update national action plans;
provide the Commission with information on the substances listed, including the quantities of waste, which are to be disposed of and the quantities that may be released.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
The Regulation applies from 16 July 2021.
BACKGROUND
The Convention on Pollutant Substances is the cornerstone of the EU strategy to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from industrial activities. It aims to protect human health, the environment and the economy.
For more information, see:
The Hague Convention (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Waste: any substance that can be contaminated by, contains or is likely to be contaminated with a substance listed on the annex.
* Contaminants: substances that have the potential to contaminate, contain or are likely to become contaminated with, or may be present in, waste.
ACT
Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 852/2017 of 16 July 2017 on the Listing and Placing on the Market and Use of Persistent Release of Chemicals from Chemists’ Inventories of Substances, Annex III (Recasting Regulation)
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Commission Implementing Decision No 2016/C 12/06
16.7.2016
-
OJL 334 of 17.11.2017
RELATED ACTS
Council Regulation (Euratom) 2016/293 of 21 February 2018 on the list of substances on the European market and on the use of polystyrene articles in buildings and amending Commission Implementing Decisions No 1/2014 and No 2/2014 concerning the placing on market of polyethylene and polypropylene articles containing hexabromocyclododecane and endosulfan.
Commission Decision (EU), Euratom, Euramodern, Euromodern and Euratom Implementing Regulations (EC, EurAModern) No 596/2014, (EC), (EURAMODN) No 696/2013 and (EC).
Council Decision 2014/856/EU of 24 November 2014 on the monitoring and control of waste from industrial processes and on waste and on hazardous substances.
Last updated: 27.02.2014



Summary 125:
Single-use plastic products: EU rules on their disposal and recycling
Single-used plastic products; reducing litter
SUMMARY OF:
Directive (EU) 2015/13/EU on the use of plastic
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DIRECTIVE?
It aims to reduce plastic waste in the European Union (EU).
It sets out rules on the placing on the market and recycling of single-use products.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The directive applies to the following products:
wet wipes, i.e. pre-wetted personal care and domestic wipes;
balloons, except balloons for industrial or other professional uses and applications that are not distributed to consumers;
lightweight plastic carrier bags as defined in point 1c of Article 3 of Directive 94/62/EC;
sanitary towels (pads), tampons and tampon applicators.
It does not apply to:
toy products with filters containing plastic.
EU countries must ensure that the packaging of these products is clearly visible and clearly labelled.
Labelling
Labels must be clearly visible on the packaging and on the product itself. They must also bear the following information:
the product’s name and address;
the number of times it has been used;
a description of the purpose for which the product is intended;
how it is intended to be disposed of.
The labelling must be visible on all packaging and the product must bear the number of trips or rotations by being refilled or re-used for the same purpose as the product.
the quantity of plastic used.
a clear description of how the product will be recycled and reused.
in addition, the labelling and packaging must indicate that it will be reused or recycled.
In addition, EU countries must set up separate collection systems for waste fishing gear containing plastic, as well as for waste plastic collected and report to the European Commission on the collection rates for this waste.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS DIRECTIVE APPLY?
 
It has applied since 1 January 2016. EU countries had to incorporate it into national law by 1 January 2017.
BACKGROUND
The plastic waste directive is part of a package of measures designed to tackle plastic pollution in the EU. The other measures include:
measures to reduce litter from post-consumption waste of tobacco products with filter containing plastic;
measures designed to reduce the amount of plastic waste generated from the manufacture, packaging, transport and disposal of food and beverage containers.
For more information, see:
Plastic waste: EU action plan (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Single-use product: a product which is intended for use only once or for a short period of time before being disposed of and which is not designed for re-use or recycling.
* Medium-density plastic (MDP): a plastic material that can be reused, recycled or reused multiple times.
ACT
   
Council Directive 2014/23/EU of 21 December 2014 on the introduction of a European Union directive on plastic waste (OJ L 304, 22.12.2014, pp. 1-8)
last update 04.02.2016



Summary 126:
EU trade mark registration
European Union (EU) trade mark registry
European trade mark registrar
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 552/2004 on the registration of EU trade marks
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes a system for the registration and authorisation of trade marks in the EU.
It codifies and repeals Regulation (Euratom) No 139/2003.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to applications for registration of the EU trade mark. It does not apply to:
international applications;
conversion applications; or
designation of goods and services under the Madrid Protocol.
The registration of a trade mark must be renewed at the request of the proprietor of the trade mark or any other person expressly authorised by him, provided that the fees have been paid.
An application for registration must contain the following information:
the name and address of the applicant;
the goods or services concerned;
a description of the products or services intended for use;
an explanation of the origin of the mark;
any other textual elements forming part of the international application.
A registration application must be filed in the language indicated when the application was filed. It must be accompanied by:
a declaration of the identity of the person or body responsible for registering the mark,
a copy of the registration application and the declaration of its validity;
documents relating to the registration;
information concerning the goods or service;
procedures of the name and place of use of the trademark.
If an application is refused, the applicant must provide the reasons for the refusal, including the goods and service concerned.
the applicant’s name, address and postal address.
Application procedure
The applicant must submit a request for registration to the European Office for the Registration of Trade Marks (OOR).
The OOR may refuse to register an application if it considers that the applicant has not fulfilled the conditions laid down in the application or that the application does not comply with the conditions set out in the annex to the regulation.
Requests for registration are made in the following languages:
English
French
German
Italian
Spanish
German.
FROM WHEN DOES THE REGULE APPLY?
From 1 January 2005.
BACKGROUND
   
 
For more information, see:
‘EU trade marks’ on the OOR’ website.
MAIN DOCUMENT
  Егранска ганка  года   барка
Council Regulation (EC), Euratom, Euratom — Registration of the Union trade mark (Codified version) (OJ L 94, 1.1.2005, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EU, Euram) No 95 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 14.02.2016



Summary 127:
Accessible format copies for the benefit of the blind, visually impaired and otherwise print-disabled
Accessible form copies for beneficiaries of the Marrakesh Treaty
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) 2017/1564 on the making and dissemination of accessible format copies of certain works and other protected subject matter
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to improve the availability of accessible formats for beneficiary copies in all of the Member States of the EU and the circulation of such copies within the internal market.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to copyright and related rights for:
the making and distribution of copies, in accessible formats, of certain protected subjects;
the importation of, and access to, these copies from a non-EU country, by authorised entities established in an EU country, for non-commercial purposes; and
the exchange of these copies between authorised entities.
It does not apply to:
copyright, copyright-related rights, or related rights;
rights relating to the reproduction, reproduction, distribution or reproduction of works or other protected subjects, including:
books, films, musicals, plays, musical compositions and other works of literary, artistic or visual interest;
works of literary or artistic merit;
books and musical compositions, plays or musical compositions or works of non-musical interest.
Authorised entities
An authorised entity may distribute, communicate or make available to beneficiary or to an organisation that is responsible for its primary activities, institutional obligations or as part of its public-interest missions.
as well as to an authorisation.
The authorised entity must:
make available to beneficiaries copies of protected subjects and works in accessible format;
provide them with the necessary information, such as their names, addresses and contact details;
ensure that these copies are made available to the beneficiary or the organisation responsible for their primary activities;
use the information provided by the authorised entity for the purpose of its activities or for its institutional obligations;
keep copies of the accessible format for the purposes of its own use;
make copies available to other authorised entities for their own use.
EU countries must ensure that authorised entities do not use the personal data of beneficiary persons for commercial purposes.
Exceptions to the above rules
The EU countries may:
use exceptions to certain rights that are harmonised by EU law;
exchange of the information contained in these exceptions;
notify the European Commission of any exceptions to these rules;
allow the Commission to review these exceptions in the light of technological progress;
introduce rules on the protection of personal data and on the free movement of such data.
References
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member State
Official Journal
Directive (EU, Euratom) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council
25.5.2016
-
OJ L 127 of 25.5, 2016
RELATED ACTS
Council Directive 2002/58/EC of 27 April 2002 establishing a European Union framework for protecting the rights of persons with disabilities and persons who are blind or visually impaired (Marrakesh Directive) (Official Journal L 119 of 28.4.2002).
Last updated: 27.07.2016



Summary 128:
Coordinated action to combat fraud and abuse of credit agreements for consumers: Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 (see summary)
Cooperative action to curb fraud and abusive use of credit agencies
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 184/2011 — coordinated action for the prevention, control and enforcement of consumer fraud
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to improve consumer protection in the European Union (EU).
It sets out rules on the coordination of actions between EU countries’ consumer protection authorities.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to all consumer credit agreements (i.e. credit agreements) with a European dimension. It does not apply to credit agreements with a non-EU dimension.
EU countries must notify the European Commission if they have a reasonable suspicion that a widespread infringement with a Union dimension has occurred.
The Commission must notify EU countries, through the competent authorities and single liaison offices concerned by that infringement, stating the grounds which justify a possible coordinated action in the notification.
If the Commission has reason to believe that an infringement has occurred, it should notify the relevant authorities of other EU countries and the European Economic Area (EEA) countries.
Cooperation
The competent authorities of the EU countries must:
share information about the suspected infringement covered by the regulation;
cooperate with each other and with the Commission on coordinated actions;
exchange information on suspected infringements;
coordinate actions with the European Anti-Fraud Office (EAFO).
Coordination of coordinated actions
The coordinated actions are coordinated through the EAFO is responsible for:
monitoring the alerts issued by competent authorities;
designating a coordinator;
providing information to the Commission;
sharing information with the other countries on the coordinated actions.
In addition, the coordinated action must include:
a description of the infringement;
the reasons for the notification;
a list of the companies involved in the infringement.
Information exchange between the authorities and the Commission
the names and contact details of the coordinators.
A coordinated action may be launched by the competent authority or the Commission if:
there is reason to suspect that the infringement is widespread;
there are grounds for a coordinated action involving more than one EU country;
it is likely to have a significant impact on the economy of the country concerned.
FROM WHEN DOES THE REGULE APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 January 2012.
BACKGROUND
The European Commission has adopted a number of measures to improve the protection of consumers in the EU, including:
Directive 2008/48/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 April 2008 on credit agreements and repealing Council Directive 87/102/EEC (OJ L 133, 22.5.2008, pp. 1-5);
Regulations (EC, Euratom) No 2006/2004 and (EC), No 18/2009 on consumer protection and Regulation (EEC) 2015/849 on consumer information and on consumer rights.
For more information, see:
‘Cooperation’ on the Commission’s website.
* KEY TERMS
* Coordinated action: coordinated action: an action to prevent, control or enforce a consumer fraud or abuse of a credit agreement. It includes:
alerting the authorities of another EU country to a suspected infringement,
coordinating actions,
exchanging information between authorities, and
coordination of actions with other countries and bodies.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EG) No 185/2011 of 21 December 2011 on coordinated action on consumer fraud and abusing credit agencies for consumers (recast version) (See summary).
Successive amendments and corrections to Regulation (G) No185/2011 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 04.01.2016



Summary 129:
In vitro diagnostic medical devices: European Union (EU) safety and health rules for in vitro diagnostics
In vitro diagnostic medical devices
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2017/745 on in vitro diagnostic devices
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to improve the safety and quality of in vitro medical devices (i.e. medical devices designed to diagnose, monitor and treat diseases).
It repeals and repeals Regulation (EC) No 552/2004 on the European Union’s general rules on the labelling and labelling of medical devices.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to:
class A and class B devices;
class D devices; and
class C devices. It does not apply to devices designed for use in the laboratory.
Manufacturers must draw up and keep up-to-date the technical documentation for those devices. This must include:
a description of the device and its characteristics;
a product description;
an indication of the purpose and purpose of the product;
the description of its purpose and the purpose of its use.
Labelling
Class A devices must bear the European Medicines Agency (EMA) UDI (United Nations Industrial Device Identifier).
Class B devices must be labelled with the UDI and must bear their own UDI.
Class C devices must carry a UDI number.
The UDI must appear on the packaging of class A devices. For class B and C devices, it must be printed on the label. For single use class A and B devices packaged and labelled individually, the label must be written in the same language as the label, except where it is written in a language other than ‘in vitro diagnostic’, ‘single use’ or ‘multi-use’.
For class D devices, a label must contain the following information:
the name of the manufacturer and the name and address of the notified body responsible for monitoring the device,
the number of samples taken and the reasons for and the nature of the modifications made to the device.
Where a class D device has been modified, the EU country in which the modification was carried out must inform the European Commission, the European Agency for Medicines Safety and Health and the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) of the reason for the modification, the nature and duration of the modification and the results of the evaluation.
EU countries must notify the Commission of any modifications that have been made to a class A or class B device and, where applicable, the EFSA of the EU countries.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULATIONS APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 January 2018.
BACKGROUND
The European Commission has adopted a number of measures to modernise and modernise the regulation in order to ensure that it is consistent with EU law. These include the following:
—
the introduction of EU-wide harmonised labelling requirements for class A diagnostic devices (see Annex II);
the harmonisation of labelling for class B diagnostic devices and class C diagnostic devices, and
the establishment of a European labelling system for class D diagnostic devices for single-use devices (See Annexes III and IV).
The Commission has also adopted a series of measures designed to ensure the uniform application of the regulation.
In addition, the regulation sets out the rules for the monitoring and monitoring of the quality and safety of class C and class D medical devices, as well as the monitoring of their performance.
MAIN DOCUMENT
 
  барска гарка  года
Commission Implementing Regulation (EU), Euratom, of 21 December 2017, on the regulation establishing a European Union system for the supervision and monitoring (UDI) of in-vitro diagnostics (OJ L 347, 21.12.2017, pp. 1-2)
Successive amendments to Regulation (Euratom) No 1/2018 have been incorporated into the original document. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
  —
Regulatory (EC, EFSA) No 496/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2004 on the harmonisation and harmonization of the laws and regulations of the Member States relating to the manufacture, testing and certification of biological products and amending Regulations (EEC, EEC, EC, EC and EC) No 652/2003 and (EC), No 653/2003 (OJC) No 796/2003, and repealing Directives (EC and EEC).
Regulations (EC (EC)(EEC), (EC(EEC)) No 654/2003) No 852/2002 and (EU)) No 853/2002 on the EU system for market surveillance of biological substances and technologies and repealing Council Directive (EC



Summary 130:
EU rules on appliances and fittings — conformity assessment and safety information (EC)
EU rules governing appliances and fitting (EC).
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 552/2014 on the harmonisation of technical harmonisation and standards for the sale and putting into service of electrical appliances
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to harmonise the technical requirements relating to the design, manufacturing, provision, assembly, use and maintenance of electrical and electronic appliances.
It sets out rules on the labelling and safety of these products.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to:
electrical appliances* and electrical fittings* designed and manufactured in the European Union (EU).
It does not apply to the following products:
cooking appliances;
circuit-circuit televisions;
electromagnetic equipment;
radio equipment; and
electro-medical equipment.
Manufacturers must ensure that:
the appliance bears the CE conformity marking;
it is accompanied by a label with the manufacturer’s name, registered trade name or registered trade mark;
the label bears the type, batch or serial number of the appliance or other element allowing its identification;
its packaging appliance contains the necessary information for adjustment, operation and maintenance;
instructions and documentation must be provided in a language easily understood by consumers and other end-users;
there is a single point at which the manufacturer can be contacted.
Importers must ensure the appliance is accompanied and its data plate bears the same information as the label.
in addition to the CE marking, the label must bear the following the following information:
name of the manufacturer;
type of electrical supply used, where applicable;
number of electrical connections;
frequency of power supply;
power supply pressure;
volume of electrical current;
pressure of the electrical supply.
Labelling
The label must contain:
manufacturers’ name and trade name;
name and trade mark.
In addition, it must bear:
an EU declaration of conformity (CE marking);
the type of electrical connection used, the nominal supply pressure for the appliance and the nominal electrical current for the fittings;
an indication of the type of fittings as part of the finished appliance, as appropriate;
a description of the operation of the appliances and their fittings.
Instructions
The manufacturer must:
make available on the market and putting in service the appliance in accordance with Annex I of the regulation;
provide the consumer with the information and documentation necessary to ensure correct and safe installation;
ensure that the appliance has been tested and certified to ensure that it complies with the requirements of this regulation.
Information and documentation
The product must be accompanied by:
a label in the language of the EU country concerned, in line with Annex II;
information in the format set out in Annex III, in order to facilitate the exchange of information between the manufacturer and the end-user;
implementing measures to ensure the safety of the product, including:
identification and documentation;
recalling the appliance if it is found to pose a risk to health and safety;
identifying and recalling it if there is a risk of a fire or explosion.
EU countries must ensure:
importers and distributors ensure that the label and the label are clearly visible on the product;
they ensure that they provide the appliance with the required information in the form of a label or label;
all necessary information is written in an easy-to-read language that can be understood and understood by the consumer.
The information must include:
contact details for the manufacturer, including the name of the importer and the postal address where the manufacturer may be contacted;
where the manufacturer is located, the address must indicate the number of distributors authorised to carry out business activities;
authorisations and authorisations must be issued by the national authority responsible for the safety and health of the products concerned.
Examination and conformity assessment
The European Commission must carry out an examination and testing of every appliance or fitting to check that it meets the essential safety requirements. It must submit a report to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee on the Functioning of the European Atomic Energy Community on the basis of the results of these tests.
If the Commission considers that an appliance does not conform to the essential requirements, it may issue a decision to recall it or to recall the product.
FROM WHEN DOES THE REGULE APPLY?
 
   
It applies from 1 January 2014.
BACKGROUND
  The regulation is based on the ‘new approach’ principles, as laid down in the Council Resolution of 7 May 1985 on a new approach to technical harmonisations and standards.
For more information, see:
Electromagnetic devices (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
 



Summary 131:
Cross-border cash-in-transit (CIT) transport
Cross-Border cash transport
SUMMARY OF:
Directive 96/71/EC on the cross-border transport of euro cash
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DIRECTIVE?
It aims to improve the security of the transport of cash in euro-denominated euro banknotes and euro coins.
It establishes minimum protection rules for the transport and security staff of euro notes, euro coins and euro notes by road.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The directive applies to:
cross-border transactions involving cash in transit;
cash in transit between national central banks;
categories of cash;
euro banknotes;
currency notes.
Requirements for CIT companies
CIT companies must:
have a valid CIT licence issued by the national central bank of the EU country in whose territory they are established;
be able to show the inspection authorities the original or a certified copy of a valid cross-banknote-carrying licence;
have security staff with bulletproof vests during the transport;
ensure that their vehicles are equipped with a global navigation system (GNSS);
have an end-to-end IBNS (Interbank Identification Number System (IBNS) that can be programmed in a secure location.
The CIT security staff must be:
certified by the competent national authority of the participating EU country;
equipped with the necessary equipment to carry out security checks on CIT vehicles;
inform the national authorities of their specific training requirements;
carry out the necessary for the security staff;
wear the bulletproof Vests referred to in point (c);
wear them where required by the law of the Member State where they are situated.
EU countries must ensure that:
the CIT company’s CIT vehicle is equipped with the GNSS;
the security staff have the appropriate training and appropriate training;
there is a minimum rate of pay, including overtime rates, for the CIT drivers, security staff and CIT cash centre staff.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS DIRECTIVE APPLY?
 
It applies from 1 January 1996.
BACKGROUND
   
The euro area is one of the most dynamic economies in the world. It is the largest economy in Europe and has a high rate of economic growth.
For more information, see:
‘Cash in transit’ on the European Commission's website.
* KEY TERMS
* CIT: a company that carries out cash transport within the euro area. The term ‘citizen’ is used to refer to any person, organisation or business that is established in an EU country and has the right to transport cash.
ACT
Council Directive 96/72/EC of 21 December 1996 on the crossing-border circulation of euro bills and of euro coins
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Commission Implementing Decision (EU) 2016/852
1.1.2016
-
OJ L 283 of 1.1-2.2016.
RELATED ACTS
Commission Delegated Regulation (EC) No 852/2014 of 27 November 2014 on the establishment of contact points for the exchange of information on the cash-transport of euro bank notes and euro coin (COT) (OJ C 202 of 28.11.2014).
last update 04.01.2016



Summary 132:
Nutrition labelling: food information and labelling
Nutrition nutrition labelling : food information
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 882/2004 on the labelling of food
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It lays down minimum requirements for the presentation of food information on the European Union’s (EU) market.
It aims to ensure that food information is clearly visible and understandable to consumers.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to:
foods intended for human consumption;
processed foods and products based on processed cheeses;
handcrafted foods;
alcoholic beverages;
wholesome food;
pre-packaged foods.
Food information
Food business operators are responsible for any changes they make to food information accompanying a food. These changes must be notified to the European Commission and to the other EU countries’ national authorities.
The nutrition declaration must contain the following information:
the amount of nutrients and/or the percentage of the reference intakes set out in Annex II of the regulation;
the quantity of protein, carbohydrate, fat, carbohydrate and protein;
fatty acidity;
glycemic index;
saturated fatty acid content;
calcium;
dietary acid content.
Labelling must also include:
a description of the food and its composition;
an indication of the quantity of vitamins and minerals;
a summary of the nutrients and minerals present in the food.
Directive 2014/2020/EU on food labelling (see summary);
the use by date of prepacked portions;
information on the nutrition declaration.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULCELEBRATION APPLACE INTO FORCE?
 
   
It applies from 1 January 2014. EU countries had to incorporate it into their national law by 1 January 2015.
BACKGROUND
The European Commission has adopted a number of measures to ensure the safe and wholesome movement of food across the EU.
For more information, see:
‘Nutrition and food information’ on the Commission's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Nutrition declaration: a declaration that informs consumers of the nutritional content of a food and the quantities of nutrients, minerals and carbohydrate present in a food, and the quantity and percentage of protein present in that food, as well as the quantities and percentages of other nutrients present in food. It must be written in a language easily understood by the end consumer, and must be accompanied by a description of how the food is prepared, stored and used.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EC), Euratom, Euratom of 21 December 2004 on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the presentation, labelling and marketing of food (OJ L 347, 21.12.2004, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (Euratom, Euratom) No 496/2004 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
  �   барска грака  глакова, года,  харшка and гарга, ‘Nutritional declaration’: ‘1.5 mg/kg of carbohydrate per 100 g of food’.
Commission Implementing Decision 2014/2021/EU of 25 November 2014 on the application of Regulation (EU, Euromodal) No 982/2003 on the presentation and marketing, and on the use-by-date of food in the context of the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA).
Commission Delegated Regulation 2014/22/EU: “Nutrition declaration” — ‘Use-by date’ and ‘use-by’ indications on foods’
Commission implementing Decision (EC, Euramodal, Eur) No 596/2014: ’Use-By-Date’, ’use-By’ indication on foods and beverages’;
Delegated Decision (EUROMODAL) No 696/2013 on the interpretation and application of Directive 2014/19/EU as regards the use by-date on food and beverages.
last update 04.02.2020



Summary 133:
Issuing of euro coins: circulation and collector coins
Issuance of euros: circulation coins
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 974/98 on the issuance of circulation coins, collector coins and 2-euro commemorative coins
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It lays down the rules for the issuing and circulation of euro-denominated coins.
It aims to ensure that euro coins are legal tender throughout the European Union (EU).
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to all EU countries whose currency is the euro. It does not apply to coins issued by the European Central Bank (ECB).
EU countries may issue two types of euro coin: circulating circulation coins* (circulation coins) and euro collector coins (collector coins) which are not issued with a view to their entry into circulation.
The circulation coins must comply with the denominations and technical specifications laid down in the regulation.
Collector coins may be put on the market at or above face value. They must not have a shaped edge with fine scallops or a ‘Spanish flower’ shape.
They must be clearly and easily recognisable on the coin and must bear the identity of the issuing EU country.
There are limits set per year and per issuing Member State for the number of issues of such coins. The total number of collector coins must not exceed 0.1 % of the cumulated total net number of 2 euro coins put into circulation by all Member States whose currency was the euro up to the beginning of the year preceding the 1-year preceding the issue of the 2-coin.
Number of euro commemorative coin
The number of 1-euro coins issued must be limited to no more than 2,000,000.
1-euro collector coins may not exceed the following limits:
0.1.1% of the cumulative total net net number issued by Member States for each individual issue;
0,1.5% for each issue for each Member State.
2.
Commission Regulation (EU) 2019/852 amends the regulation to allow for the possibility to issue 1-cent and 2.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 July 1998.
BACKGROUND
The euro has been legal tender in the EU since 1 January 1999.
For more information, see:
‘Issuing euro coins’ on the European Commission’s website.
KEY TERMS
* Circulation coins: coins denominated in euro and cent and complying with the regulations laid down by the Council.
* Collector coins: euro coins intended for collection.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Commission Implementing Decision (EU, Euratom) 2018/952 of 24 June 2018 on the issue and circulation limits of euro collector coin and 2 euro commemoration coins and repealing Council Regulation (EC, EC, EC) No 852/98 (OJ C 273, 16.9.2018, pp. 1-2)
Successive amendments to Regulation (Euratom) No 1052/2018 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 14.02.2021



Summary 134:
European Social Fund
European social fund
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 establishing the European Social Fund (ESF)
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes the mission and scope of the European social fund (ESSF).
It sets out the thematic objectives for the ESF.
KEY POINTS
The ESF’s objective is to promote social inclusion and combating poverty, in particular with regard to disadvantaged people such as the Roma. The ESF contributes to the creation of a sustainable, inclusive, inclusive and inclusive society.
The objectives are:
promoting social inclusion, combating poverty and any discrimination;
contributing to promoting equal opportunities;
encouraging the development of a knowledge-based economy;
improving the quality of education and training;
increasing employability;
supporting research and innovation;
strengthening human capital development.
Objectives
The main objectives are to:
support social inclusion;
combat poverty;
promote equal opportunities for disadvantaged people;
fight racism and xenophobia;
ensure the protection of the rights of women and minorities.
Specific investment priorities
EU countries may set up specific investment priorities for specific thematic priorities, such as:
the creation of an integrated urban development strategy;
the promotion of sustainable urban development through strategies setting out integrated actions to tackle the economic, environmental and social challenges affecting the urban areas identified by the EU countries on the basis of the principles laid down in their respective Partnership Agreements.
the development of an inclusive, sustainable and inclusive economy.
support for young people.
Supporting young people
The European education initiative (YEI) may support actions to combat early school leaving. The YEI may also contribute to cultural and creative skills.
Promoting equal opportunities
The aim of the programme is to ensure that young people have equal opportunities and that they have access to equal opportunities, irrespective of their gender, race, ethnic origin, religion, language, age, sexual orientation, disability, age of birth, gender identity or sexual orientation.
In addition, the programme aims to promote equal opportunities by:
providing young people with access to quality education;
raising awareness and understanding of gender equality;
developing a culture of equal opportunities.
Eligibility of expenditure
The EU countries may finance the following activities:
research and innovation (R&I);
education;
employment;
training;
health and safety at work;
creative skills;
science and technology;
environmental protection;
social inclusion.
Financing
The allocation of ESF resources in each EU country must be calculated taking into account the co-financing rate of the overall ESF allocation together with the special allocation for the Youth Employment Initiative (YEI).
The priority axis of the priority axis is fixed at 20 % of the total ESF budget.
EU Member States and the European Commission must regularly evaluate the effectiveness, efficiency and impact of the investment priorities.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULATE APPLY?
The regulation has applied since 1 January 2014.
BACKGROUND
   
For more information, see:
‘The European Society for the Prevention of Poverty and the Eradication of Racial Discrimination’ on the European Council's website.
MAIN DOCUMENT
 
Commission Regulation (EC) No 1301/2013 of 20 December 2013 setting up the European System of Social Funds (ESSF) (OJ L 127, 31.12.2013, pp. 1-3)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EU] No 13 01/2013 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 04.02.2016



Summary 135:
European statistics on population and vital events
European statistics in the field of statistics
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 on the development, production and dissemination of European statistics
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out the rules for the collection, transmission and exchange of data on the EU’s population, vital events and population statistics.
KEY POINTS
EU countries must provide the European Commission (Eurostat) with data on:
the total population at national level at the reference time, in accordance with Article 2(c), within 8 months of the end of the reference year;
the number of births, deaths, marriages, divorces, deaths and births of children under the age of 18, as well as the number of deaths and deaths of infants under 18.
The Commission must transmit the data and metadata required under this regulation to Eurostat within 8 weeks of the beginning of the first reference year.
Eurostat must ensure the quality of the data transmitted and ensure that the data are transmitted in a language easily understood by the end-users.
National authorities must ensure that they transmit to the Commission:
data on the total population of the EU, including the total number of people under 18, and the total birth, death, marriage, death and death of children of the population;
information on the number and age of persons under 18 and the birth of children;
statistical data on births and deaths, deaths of children, marriages and deaths;
national statistics on births, marriage and death rates;
international statistics on vital events.
Data collection and transmission
The data transmitted must be:
scientifically-based and well-documented statistical estimation methods, where appropriate;
based on the best available information available;
accurate, reliable and comparable data on birth and death statistics;
data for births, death rates and deaths by sex;
total birth rate and death rate by age;
number of births by sex, age, sex, socioeconomic status and geographic dimensions;
percentage of births in the EU;
death rate by sex and birth rate by country of birth;
countries’ birth rates by age and sex by gender;
population by birth rate;
frequency and reference time
The first reference date for population data is in 2013 and the last reference date is in 2027. The reference period for vital events data is the calendar year in which the events occurred.
In addition, EU countries must:
provide the Commission with:
a description of the events covered by the data;
a list of the countries and regions where the events took place;
an estimate of the number, birth rate, death rate and birth rates of children in each EU country;
identification of the regions and countries covered by vital events;
methods used for the transmission of data.
FROM WHEN DOES THE REGULE APPLY?
The regulation applies from 1 January 2013. EU countries had to incorporate it into national law by 1 January 2014.
BACKGROUND
The European Commission has adopted a number of implementing acts to improve the common legal framework for developing, producing and disseminating European statistics. These include:
Implementing Regulation (EC) No 596/2013 on the European statistical system (see summary);
Directive 2014/23/EU on the statistical system for the European Union (European Statistical System).
This regulation establishes the European Statistical System (ESS).
KEY TERMS
* Total population: the population of all EU countries.
* Vital events: events that have a direct or indirect impact on the population.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 181/2011 of 21 December 2011 on the collection and dissemination, transmission, transmission of European statistical information on the general population and on population statistics (OJ L 183, 21.12.2011, pp. 1-2)
Successive amendments to Regulation (Euratom) no 181/11 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 04.02.2016



Summary 136:
Pre-treatment of textile fibres
Pre- treatment of textile fibre
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 596/2004 on pre-treatment
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes a uniform EU-wide system for pre-treating certain textile products.
It aims to ensure that the labelling and labelling of these products is accurate and to ensure the quality of the products. It also aims to protect consumers and the environment.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to all textile products, including:
textiles, including clothing, footwear, clothing accessories, tableware, tablecloths, tablecloth covers, table cloths and tableware accessories;
covers for mobile telephones and portable media players with a surface of not more than 160 cm2;
towards the end-of-life of textile products;
textile products intended for use in mountaineering and water sports;
coverings for mobile phones and portable video players.
This regulation does not apply to:
wearwear;
accessories for children’s mobile phones;
tablecloths;
clothing;
wear accessories for children;
wool;
cotton;
fibres used in clothing.
Labelling
Textile products must bear the following information on their packaging:
the fibre composition;
the number of fibres in the product;
a description of the fibre.
The textiles must be labelled in accordance with the technical specifications laid down in the regulation.
the quantity and type of the product.
Textiles must bear a technical description of their fibre composition.
Fibresin accordance with Regulation (EU) No 10/2014 on the labels of textile product packaging.
FROM WHEN DOES THE LEGULATION APPLY?
 
It has applied since 1 January 2005.
BACKGROUND
   
For more information, see:
‘Textile fibres’ on the European Commission's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Pre-treatment: the process by which a natural non-fibrous substance is removed from a textile product in order to remove its natural constituents. This process is known as ‘pre-treatment’. It is the process used to remove the natural constituents of the textile product. The term ‘fibre’ is used to describe the fibres that have been treated with a pre-chemical agent. It does not refer to the fibre itself, but to the components that are present in the finished product, such as the colour, the texture, the colouring or the texture of the surface of the material.
ACT
 			
  The regulation applies from 1 January 2004.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Regulations
1.1.2004
-
OJ L 127 of 1.1, 2004
2.2.2005
3.3.2006
4.5.2007
5.6.2008
6.7.2009
7.7-
2011
7).7.2013
8.8.2014
9.1-
2015
10.8-
2016
11.9.2015
12.10.2016
13.11.2017
Last updated: 27.07.2015



Summary 137:
Support for the conservation and sustainable growth of the European fisheries and aquaculture sector (CFP) (revised Regulation)
Supporting the sustainable growth and sustainable development of the EU’s fisheries and aquatic ecosystems
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 1380/2013 on the European Fisheries and Aquaculture Fund
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes a framework for EU-wide support for sustainable growth in the fisheries sector.
It repeals Regulation (EC) No 861/2006.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to:
fisheries, including:
aquaculture enterprises;
the fishing industry;
fishing vessels;
agriculture enterprises.
Fishery enterprises
Support may be granted for:
replacement or modernisation of main or ancillary engines in respect of which the consistency of engine power has been verified in accordance with Article 41 of Regulation (EEC) 1224/2009 and which have been physically inspected to ensure that the engine power does not exceed the official engine power established in the fishing licenses;
replacing or modernising of fishing vessels and their propulsion systems;
main or auxiliary propulsion systems.
Support must not be granted to the farming of genetically modified organisms (GMOs) or to the production of biofuels.
EU countries may also provide technical assistance for the design and implementation of conservation measures and regional cooperation.
The European Maritime and Fisheries Fund (EMFFF)
The EMFF is an EU-funded programme designed to promote sustainable growth by:
supporting the development of sustainable fishing in the Mediterranean and Black Sea;
encouraging the sustainable use of the Black Sea and the Baltic Sea of Finland;
providing technical assistance and ex post evaluations.
EMFF supports:
the development and management of sustainable fisheries;
conservation measures;
environmental protection;
protection of marine ecosystems;
scientific advice;
monitoring and evaluation of the implementation of regional cooperation;
research and development programmes;
exchange of scientific information;
information and communication campaigns;
assistance to the European Commission;
cooperation with non-EU countries and international organisations;
support for research and development projects.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
The CFP has applied since 1 January 2014.
BACKGROUND
The EU fisheries sector is one of the priority sectors for the European Union (EU). This is why the EU has adopted a number of measures to support sustainable growth, including the creation of the EMFF.
For more information, see:
Support for sustainable development (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Fishery enterprises: enterprises engaged in fishing, farming, fishing vessels, aquacultural enterprises, and aqua-related activities.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 1308/2013 of 21 December 2013 establishing a Community Framework for the Conservation and Sustainable Growth of the Atlantic Ocean and of the Green Sea (the CFP)
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Commission Implementing Decision 2013/1380/EU
1.1.2014
-
OJ L 347 of 21.12.2013
RELATED DOCUMENTS
Council Communication of 20 December 2013 on the implementation and functioning of the Community Framework on the Conservation, Sustainable Development and Green Sea and on the re-implementation of the CFP (COM(2013) 696 final - Not published in the Official Journal).
Communication from the Commission to the Council, the European Parliament and the European Economic and Social Committee: The implementation of the Common Fisheries Policy and the re‑introduction of the common fisheries policy and the sustainable development policy for the Atlantic and Green Seas (COM (2014) 697 final - Unpublished version).
last update 04.02.2015



Summary 138:
Proprietary investment products (PRIIPs) — key information document (KEY INFORMATION DOCUMENT)
Protocols for the marketing of investment products for retail investors (PRIPs)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 552/2004 on the marketing and supervision of retail investment products
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
   Â     ‘PRIIP’ refers to a type of investment product designed to provide specific investment solutions tailored to the needs of retail investors, which can be complex and difficult to understand.
It aims to ensure that retail investors have access to the information they need in order to make informed investment decisions.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to:
products marketed to retail investors in the European Union (EU);
products designed to be traded on secondary markets;
key information documents (KIs) for PRIIPs;
procedures for the sale and marketing of PRIs;
advice on, or selling, the PRIIP.
The KIs must be published on the European Securities and Markets Authority’s (ESAs) website. They must also be published in the Official Journal of the EU.
EU countries must designate a national authority responsible for the supervision of the marketing, advertising and sale of the PRIPs. This authority must be independent of the European Commission and must have the power to impose sanctions and measures on the PRIs. It must also ensure that the KIs are effective, proportionate and dissuasive.
In addition, it must:
ensure that the products comply with the relevant EU legislation;
take the necessary measures to protect the interests of the retail investors;
notify the competent authorities of EU countries of the countries in which the products are marketed;
report to the competent authority of each EU country every 5 years on the number of KIs it has published;
make available on its website a copy of all the information contained in the key information documents;
provide information on the conditions under which a PRI is traded on the secondary markets.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDITUMENT APPLY?
It has applied since 1 January 2005.
BACKGROUND
The European Union has adopted a number of measures to improve the functioning of the market for investment products. These include:
Directive 2002/92/EC on the distribution of insurance products in the EU (see summary).
KEY TERMS
* Retail investment product: a product that provides investment solutions designed to meet specific investment needs.
* Key information document: a document that provides information to the retail investor about the investment options offered by a product. It is designed to help the investor to make an informed investment decision.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Council Regulation (EU) No 550/2004
1.1.2005
-
OJ L 31 of 1.1.2005
Amending act(s)
Entry in force
Date of transposition: 1.2.2006
- This regulation repeals Directive 2002/96/EC.
RELATED ACTS
 
Regulatory (EC, Euratom) No 696/2004 of the Council of the United Kingdom of 11 December 2004 on insurance mediation (OJ C 696, 31.12.2004, pp. 1-2)
Regulating (EC), Euratom No 596/2005 of the Parliament of the Netherlands and of the Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on investment products and repealing Directives 2002/93/EC, 2002/94/EC and 2002/95/EC of the Commission and Council of 9 December 2002 on investment mediation and on insurance insurance mediation. See consolidated version.
Commission Implementing Decision 2002/9/EC/Euratom of 26 November 2002 on the supervision and supervision procedures for the promotion and marketing, marketing and sales of insurance mediation products (Official Journal L 9 of 15.12.). See consolidated copy.
Regulations (EC and Euratom).
Regulated (EC).
Directives 2002 and 2004/EC:
Council Directive 2001/96 /EC on investment solutions for retail investment (O J L 9, 15.2, 2002, pp 1-3)
Directress 2001/98 /EC: Regulation on the promotion, marketing, sales and marketing procedures for insurance mediation and insurance insurance products (Directive 2001/97/EC)
Council Directives 2001/99 /EC and 2003/98/EC establishing a framework for the coordination of the activities of national authorities in the field of insurance and on investment management (Directives 2003/97 /EC, 2004/99/EC), 2004/01/EC (Directress 2002/01) and 2004 /01/EU on insurance mediators and on the management of insurance claims (Regulation 2002



Summary 139:
Resolving insolvency proceedings in the European Union (EU) — Resolution mechanism for the establishment of the Single Resolution Mechanism (SRM)
Resolving solvencies
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001 on the resolution of insolvencies in the EU
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes the European System of Resolution Mechanisms (SRSM).
It aims to ensure that resolution proceedings are carried out by national authorities and bodies.
It sets up a European system of resolution for the European banking sector.
KEY POINTS
The resolution mechanism consists of a Board of the European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA).
The SRSM is composed of representatives of the national resolution authorities of the EU countries and the European Banking Authority (EBA). It is chaired by the European Commission and composed of at least one representative from each EU country.
The European Commission appoints the Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson of the SRA. The Chairperson is appointed by the Commission and is assisted by the EBA. The SRA’s budget is set out in the regulation.
Resolution procedure
The national authorities must submit to the Board all the information necessary to draw up and implement the resolution plans, as obtained by them in accordance with Article 11 and Article 13(1) of Directive 2014/59/EU, without prejudice to Chapter 5 of the same directive. The resolution authorities must ensure that the resolution plan meets the objectives of the resolution scheme. The plan must include a business reorganisation plan, which will restore the entity in question to financial soundness and long-term viability, as well as a valuation of the assets and liabilities of the entity.
In addition, the resolution authority must submit a report to the board every 3 years on the progress made in the resolution process. The report must include information on:
the assets, liabilities and assets of the institution;
the financial position of the company and its subsidiaries;
investment and lending prospects;
financial position of shareholders and creditors;
capital adequacy of the bank and its assets;
costs related to the resolution procedure.
A valuation is carried out as soon as possible after the resolution action or actions have been taken. The valuation must be carried out to assess whether the resolution proceedings would have received better treatment if the institution under resolution had entered into normal insolventcy proceedings. The board must also assess whether there is any damage to the natural or legal interests of shareholders or creditors caused by the resolution.
If the board considers that the institution in question does not meet the resolution objectives, it must take the necessary resolution action to carry out the resolution measures.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULATING REGULATED DIRECTIVE APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 January 2002. EU countries had to incorporate it into national law by 1 January 2003.
BACKGROUND
 
  * KEY TERMS
* Solvency II: the process by which an insolvent bank is brought into bankruptcy proceedings.
* Resolution mechanism: the system in which a bank is placed under resolution proceedings. It aims to:
restore its financial health;
reorganise its business;
ensure that its assets are sound and its liabilities are repaid;
provide the board with the information it needs to make its decisions.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1024/2001 of 21 December 2001 on the establishment, on behalf of the Union, of a system of resolutions in the field of banking institutions (OJ L 304, 23.12.2001, pp. 1-2)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EEC, EEA) No 1080/2001 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 04.02.2016



Summary 140:
Noise-related operating restrictions: rules for aircraft noise
Noise - restrictions for aircraft emissions
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 561/2013 on noise-related air traffic management
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
 
   
It sets out the rules for the implementation of the European Union (EU)’s ‘balanced approach to noise’.
It aims to improve the soundness of air traffic in the EU by:
reducing aircraft noise at source;
improving noise abatement operational procedures;
not applying operating restrictions as a first resort, but only after consideration of the other measures of the balanced approach.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to aircraft engaged in civil aviation. It does not apply to:
aircraft engaged in military operations;
military aircraft;
passenger aircraft; or
passengers flying between airports.
EU countries must ensure that:
noise performance information is available to the European Commission and the public;
airport capacity and airport capacity planning and management are taken into account when drawing up noise performance information;
the number of aircraft flying in and out of an airport is assessed;
measures are taken to reduce aircraft noise.
Airport capacity, airport capacity and noise
The Commission must notify the relevant authority if it finds that the process followed for the introduction of noise-based restrictions does not meet the requirements.
The European Commission must inform the European Parliament, the European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) and the Commission if it considers that the regulation does not comply with the requirements of the regulation.
In addition, EU countries must:
ensure that the Commission:
identifies the airport concerned;
draws up a list of airports with a high level of noise;
ensures the Commission has access to the information it needs to assess the impact of noise on safety, security and competition;
assesses the cost-effectiveness of the proposed measures;
provides the Commission with a cost-benefit analysis of the measures to be taken;
informs the Commission of the decision-making process and the reasons for selecting the preferred option.
Where the Commission considers that a combination of available measures is the most cost-effective measure or combination of measures, it must inform EU countries, the Commission and interested parties of the choice of option. The Commission must also notify the competent authorities of any organisation which could be affected by the decision.
Implementing the regulation
The competent authorities must give the Commission, the Member States, the EASA and the interested parties at least 6 months’ advance notice before introducing an operating restriction, ending at least 2 months prior to the determination of the slot coordination parameters for the relevant scheduling period.
Before introducing an operational restriction, the authorities must ensure the following information is provided:
the location of the airport;
a description of the noise level at source and the duration of the operating restriction;
noisy performance information.
If an airport has a high noise level, this information must be provided to the Commission by the competent authority.
A number of factors must be taken into consideration in the selection of the option to impose the operating restrictions. These include the following:
capacity and the number of flights to and from the airport, including the number and frequency of aircraft movements;
capacity of the airspace;
any effects on the European aviation network.
An airport must also be notified of any changes in the number, frequency or duration of flights.
When a decision is taken to impose a noise restriction, it should be accompanied by a report on the impact on the environment and the safety of aviation operations, including third-party risks. The report must include:
a summary of the results of the assessment of the impact, including an estimate of the expected noise benefit of the envisaged measures, now and in the future;
effects on the safety and environmental impact of the planned measures, including impacts on third parties;
impact on the EU aviation network;
an assessment of any adverse effects on air traffic safety, including on the capacity of the airports concerned, as well as on the effects on competition and on airport capacity.
FROM WHEN DOES THE REGULE APPLY?
It has applied since 1 January 2014.
BACKGROUND
 			
The ‘Balanced Approach to Noise’ is part of the ‘EU Aviation’ package of measures designed to protect the environment, air traffic and safety.
For more information, see:
‘Noise’ on Eurostat's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Aircraft noise: the noise emitted by an aircraft at source.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 550/2013 of 21 December 2013 on the implementation by Member States of the Balanced Approach to Air Traffic Management in the field of noise operating restrictions (EEC) (OJ L



Summary 141:
Cross-border insolvency proceedings: rules for the administration of cross-border proceedings (Regulation (EU) No 182/2011)
Cross-Border insolvencies: rules on the application of the regulation
SUMMARY OF:
Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 184/2011 — rules on cross-bankruptcy proceedings
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to improve the administration and transparency of cross border insolvence proceedings in the European Union (EU).
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to:
the debtor’s assets and affairs;
the assets and assets of the debtor;
creditors’ rights.
It does not apply to assets and liabilities of a company that has ceased to exist or that has been wound up.
Rules for the insolvent debtor
The rules apply to the debtor and to the parties involved in the proceedings.
The debtor must:
be able to present its assets and accounts to the court;
provide the court with a copy of its accounts and liabilities;
have a written agreement with the court on how the debtor will be able to dispose of its assets, liabilities and assets;
make available all the information necessary for the proper administration of the proceedings;
allow the court to decide whether the debtor is insolvent or not.
Procedure for lodging claims
Creditors have the right to lodge claims and to withdraw their claims. They may lodge their claims in the same day as the debtor. The creditor may also lodge claims in another EU country where the debtor has an establishment or has an office.
In addition, the creditor may lodge a claim in the country where it has its head office. The debtor must have the necessary authorisation before lodging its claims.
A court may decide to open a group coordination proceedings if it considers that a group of coordination proceedings would materially impair the interests of creditors whose dealings with the debtor took place prior to the relocation. The court decides whether to open such proceedings or not to do so, depending on the criteria set out in the regulation.
Coordination of proceedings
The court in which a coordination proceedings has been filed makes an assessment of those criteria prior to opening coordination proceedings. If the court finds that the centre of main interests is not located on its territory, it should not open coordination proceedings, except where it is necessary to protect employees and jobs.
If the court considers that coordination proceedings will materially impair creditors’ interests, it may open a secondary or third-country coordination proceedings instead.
Right to request the opening of a secondary proceedings
A debtor may request to be opened in another country. However, where the law applicable to the proceedings so requires, that debtor must obtain authorisation from the court in that country before making such a request. This authorisation is valid for a maximum of 3 years.
Exercise of creditors' rights
The creditor has the right:
to lodge claims;
to exercise their rights in the case of a third country; and
to have their claims heard in the EU country in which they have their head office or where they have an establishment.
Administrative powers
The proceedings are governed by the rules laid down by the European Court of Justice (ECJ). The ECJ is responsible for:
supervising the proceedings of the parties;
coordinating the conduct of hearings;
cooperating and communicating between the parties in order to ensure that the proceedings are properly administered;
approving the approval of protocols, where necessary;
exercising the rights and obligations of the creditor in the event of a breach of the rights of the creditors.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
Regulation(EU) 2018/852 has applied since 1 January 2018.
BACKGROUND
   
 
For more information, see:
‘Crossborder insolventcy’ on the European Commission's website.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Commission Implementing Regulation (Euratom) 2018-852 of 20 December 2018 on the implementation of Regulation (EC) No 183/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the rules of the Union relating to insolvences (OJ L 347, 21.12.2018, pp. 1-2)
Successive amendments to Regulation (ER) 2018 - amending act(s) have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 04.01.2021



Summary 142:
Limits on liability for damage caused to passengers in maritime accidents
Limitations on liability in the event of damage caused by passengers in marine accidents
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 596/2006 on liability rules for damage to passengers
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It lays down rules for the liability of the European Union (EU) Member States’ carriers and the International Maritime Organization (IMO) in the case of maritime accidents.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to:
the carriage of passengers by road, air, sea or on board a ship;
the transport of goods by road and on board ships.
It does not apply to the carriage of goods and passengers by rail.
Liability of the carrier
The carrier is liable for loss of or damage to luggage and vehicles. For the loss suffered as a result of the loss of cabin luggage, the carrier must be liable if the incident which caused the loss was due to the fault or neglect of the passenger or the carrier was negligent in its handling of the luggage.
For the loss caused by damage to a vehicle, the liability is based on the following factors:
damage caused by the accident was caused by negligence;
damage was caused due to fault or negligence.
The liability must be paid within 3 years from the date of the accident. This period may be extended by a declaration by the carrier or by agreement of the parties after the cause of action has arisen.
Claimants must be provided with:
a written notice of loss or damage;
a certificate of the incident.
a copy of the carriage and of the damage caused;
information on the loss and damage.
the liability of insurance and limitation of liability of insurers.
Insurance and limitation
Insurers must provide the claimant with sufficient insurance to cover the liability arising from an accident. The liability of an insurer must be limited to the liability caused by an accident or negligence and must not exceed the amount of the insurance. Insurance must be guaranteed by the EU country in which the accident took place.
Compulsory financial security
The claimant must be entitled to a compulsory financial security (i.e. This is a unit of account that can be used for the purpose of safe-keeping. The claimant must have sufficient financial security to cover all the costs and expenses of the claim, including:
fees and expenses related to the costs of insurance;
claimants’ expenses relating to the cost of insurance.
Limits of liability
The claim must be made against the carrier and the carrier’s insurance company. Insurance companies must:
ensure that the claimant is entitled to at least EUR 21 000;
provide a certificate in the official language or languages of the issuing country;
notify the claimant within 30 days of the date on which the incident took place;
give the claimant a copy of their insurance policy;
make available to the claimant all the information necessary to prove that they are entitled to compensation.
In addition, insurance companies must provide information on the liability and liability of their clients, including the number of passengers and the number and type of goods they have insured. The information must be in the most appropriate format.
Requests for compensation
The European Commission must submit a report to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions every 5 years on the implementation of the regulation. The report must contain the following information:
details of the type and quantity of compensation to be paid,
the nature and duration of the compensation and the reasons for the compensation;
any other relevant information requested by the claimant.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 January 2007.
BACKGROUND
 
  The regulation is part of a package of measures designed to ensure a high level of protection for passengers involved in maritime accident compensation. These measures include:
measures to improve the safety and security of maritime transport;
measures for the prevention and control of maritime pollution;
rules on liability, insurance and liability.
See also:
‘The Athens Convention’ on maritime accidents (European Maritime Safety Agency).
KEY TERMS
* Carriage: a means of transport by road or sea.
* Vehicle: a vehicle that carries passengers, goods or passengers on board.
MAIN DOCUMENT
 			
Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 550/2006 of 21 December 2006 on liability limits for damage causing to passengers (OJ L 131, 21.12.2006, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EEC, E.U. No 550) have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 04.02.2021



Summary 143:
Establishment of rail freight corridors in the European Union (EU)
Establishment, management and operation of railway freight corridors
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 552/2008 establishing a framework for the establishment, management, operation and management of freight corridors within the EU
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes a framework to establish, manage and operate a rail freight corridor in the EU.
It sets out the purpose and scope of the freight corridor.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to:
railways and intermodal freight terminals (i.e. railways used exclusively for the transport of goods);
railway infrastructure;
traffic management;
the management of the corridor;
quality of service;
investment in the infrastructure.
Management
The management board of a freight corridor:
draws up, regularly updates and publishes a document containing:
all the information contained in the network statement for national networks regarding the rail corridor, drawn up in accordance with the procedure set out in Article 3 of Directive 2001/14/EC on the establishment of rail corridors;
a list and characteristics of terminals, in particular information concerning the conditions and methods of accessing the terminals;
information concerning the procedures referred to in Articles 13 to 17 of this regulation;
an implementation plan for the corridor, drawing up by the management board.
Implementation plan
A management board must draw up and publish an implementation plan. This must include:
a description of the railway infrastructure,
the characteristics of the rail infrastructure and
the number and type of freight terminals,
information on the quality of service on the corridor
information about the number and types of freight trains.
An implementation plan must be submitted to the European Commission every 3 years.
The Commission must periodically examine the application of the regulation and present to the Commission the results of the implementation plans.
FROM WHEN DOES THE REGULE APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 January 2009.
BACKGROUND
The European Union has established a number of rail infrastructure corridors in its internal rail market. These are designed to provide a high-quality, safe, efficient and environmentally sound rail transport network for goods.
For more information, see:
‘Railways’ website.
* KEY TERMS
* Freight corridor: a rail corridor is defined as a railway line which is designed to carry goods between the points of departure of a railway station and the point of arrival of a train. It may be used for the carriage of goods or for the movement of passengers.
MAIN DOCUMENT
 
Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 550/2008 of 21 December 2008 establishing a Framework for the Establishment, Management, Operation and Governance of the Railways and Intermodal Freight Corridors within the Union and repealing Council Directive 91/440/EEC of 29 July 1991 on the development of the Community's railways (OJ L 94, 29.12.2008, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (Euratom) no 550/08 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
 			
Directive 2001/13/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2001 on the allocation of railway infrastructure capacity and on the levying of charges for the use of railways (Official Journal C 202 of 26.3.2001)
See consolidated version.
last update 04.01.2016



Summary 144:
Road transport operators’ professional competence — common rules for the occupation of road transport operator
Road transport professionals‘professional competence’
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 552/2010 — professional competence for the occupational occupation of the occupation OF road transport operators
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
   
 
It aims to ensure that road transport companies have the necessary professional competence to operate in the European Union (EU).
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to undertakings which:
operate in road transport services exclusively for non-commercial purposes or which have a main occupation other than that of road passenger transport operator;
have at least the following subjects covered by the regulation:
the knowledge to be taken into consideration for the official recognition of professional competence by Member States;
the organisation and organisation of the organisation of a road transport company.
It does not apply to the following undertakings:
undertakings engaged in road passenger services exclusively by means of motor vehicles with a maximum authorised speed not exceeding 40 km/h;
operators engaged in the transport of goods by road;
other undertakings engaged solely in road haulage;
unions and social security organisations.
Member States must ensure that undertakings have an effective and stable establishment and that they meet the following conditions:
they have at all times been able to meet their financial obligations in the course of the annual accounting year;
they are at least able to carry out their business activities in accordance with the rules and regulations applicable in the Member States.
They must be able to:
have a profit and loss account with a very visible or very visible logo;
be able to reproduce or print a number of visible or visible symbols;
provide proof of their financial standing.
Certificates relating to financial standing
Where a Member State imposes on its nationals certain conditions relating to good repute, and proof that these conditions are met cannot be provided by a document, that Member State must accept as sufficient proof for nationals of other Member States a certificate issued by a competent judicial or administrative authority in the EU country where the transport manager or any other relevant person used to reside stating that the conditions have been met.
In addition, Member States must:
ensure that an undertaking has the following documents:
a certificate with a micro-number;
a document with a number;
an undertaking’s annual report on its financial standing;
documents relating to driving patterns;
certificates for the design and printing of road signs and markings;
rules relating to security.
An undertaking must also provide the competent authorities of the Member State in which it is based with a report on the number of vehicles it has on its road network.
The Commission must publish an electronic register of all undertakings that comply with the regulation. This must be made available to all Member States and to the European Commission. It must also be available to the public.
Report
The European Commission must submit a report every 3 years on the implementation of the regulation to the Council and the European Parliament on the quality of the road transport sector. This report must include information on:
road transport companies’ annual accounts and financial statements;
road traffic statistics;
traffic statistics and statistics on road traffic accidents;
information on road transport accidents; and
the number of road traffic fatalities.
FROM WHEN DOES THE REGULE APPLY?
It has applied since 4 December 2011.
BACKGROUND
 The regulation is part of a package of measures designed to modernise and modernise the rules governing road transport. The main objectives of the package are:
to:
improve road safety;
reduce administrative costs;
improve the level of protection of road users;
promote the efficiency of the transport sector;
facilitate the exchange of information between Member States’ competent authorities;
strengthen administrative cooperation between them.
For more information, see:
‘Road transport’ on the Commission's website.
KEY TERMS
* Driver: a person who is responsible for driving a motor vehicle.
* Transport manager: the person responsible for the organisation, organisation and management of a transport company and for the management of its staff.
MAIN DOCUMENT
 			
Council Regulation (EU) No 550/2010 of 4 December 2010 on the professional competence of the Occupational Occupational OJ L 183, 4.12.2010, pp. 1-8
Successive amendments to Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 530/2010 have been incorporated into the original document. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 04.02.2021



Summary 145:
Beneficiaries’ right to benefits in the event of sickness and unemployment in another EU Member State
Benefics’ rights in the case of illness and unemployment
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 883/2004 on the application of social security rules
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to improve the functioning of the social security system in the European Union (EU).
It sets out rules for the processing of claims for social security and unemployment benefits.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to all EU citizens who are entitled to benefit in kind and in cash from the EU’s social security systems.
It applies to:
beneficiaries of accidents at work and occupational diseases;
unemployed people who reside in a Member State other than the EU country where the legislation applies;
benefit claimants who are covered by the legislation of the Member State in which they are resident.
The rules cover:
the right to receive benefits in kind, in cash and in kind-in-kind, in accordance with the rules laid down in the basic regulation on social security;
the obligation to pay the cost of the scheduled treatment and the obligation to be reimbursed by the institution which bears the costs of the treatment.
Claims
Claimants must make a request for information concerning the legislation applicable to the person concerned and to the institution in which the activity is pursued. The applicant must provide the institution with all relevant documents and supporting evidence. The institution must inform the applicant of its decision within 2 months of receiving the request.
the institution must send a copy of the decision to the applicant.
If a claim is rejected, the applicant must be informed of the reason for the decision and the reasons for its rejection.
In the event that the claim is not successful, the claim must be made to the competent institution of that Member State. This institution must take a position on the provisional decision within two months.
Recovery of claims
The applicant must pay the full amount of the claim. If it is not possible to recover all or any of the claims via this offsetting procedure, the remainder of the amount due must be recovered by the Member States’ national social security authorities.
Benefits in kind
The Member States must ensure that the benefits provided in kind are reimbursed on the basis of a fixed amount established for each calendar year. The Member States are responsible for the calculation of the amounts to be paid.
Unemployed people
The benefits provided to the unemployed person must be paid in kind:
in accordance with Article 24(1) and Articles 25 and 26 of the basic Regulation;
at the rate set out in Article 27 of the regulation;
for the duration of the period of unemployment.
Member States may decide to extend the validity of these benefits if they consider it necessary to protect the health and safety of the applicant or to ensure the protection of the general public.
Non-compliance with the basic rules
The Commission may, in exceptional cases, adopt measures to prevent or reduce the number of claims that are rejected or to limit the amount of benefits that can be received. The Commission may also adopt measures that aim to improve cooperation between social security institutions.
Coordination measures
The European Commission is responsible for coordinating the implementation of the implementing regulation in Member States. It is assisted by the European Social Security Information System (ESIS).
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
The implementing regulation has applied since 1 January 2005.
BACKGROUND
   
The Social Security system is one of the main elements of the European Pillar of Social Rights (PSR). The PSR is the cornerstone of social cohesion in the EU. It aims to ensure that all citizens have equal access to social security.
For more information, see:
‘Social security’ on the European Commission's website.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition into force in the Member Countries
Official Journal
Commission Implementing Regulation (EC).
-
OJ L 347, 1.1.2005, pp. 1-8
RELATED ACTS
 
Regulating Council Regulation (EU) No 596/2004 of 25 November 2004 on the approximation of the rules on the administration of the system for the collection, processing and receipt of benefits in respect of sickness, unemployment and sickness-related conditions (EC-2004/883) (OJ C 202, 28.11.2004, pp 1-2)
See consolidated version.
last update 04.02.2016



Summary 146:
Statistics on health and social determinants of health: EU countries’ data
Statistics on healthcare and social aspects
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 552/2013/EU — EU countries' data on health
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
   
 
It establishes a European Union (EU) statistical system for the collection and transmission of statistics on health.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to all EU countries.
It covers:
the EU’s population;
the population of the EU countries;
health-related indicators;
social determinants* of health;
quality of health care.
Data collection
EU countries must collect data on all aspects of health, including:
physical and psychosocial health problems;
sensory and psychological health problems.
The data must be collected in the form of surveys, surveys and surveys on the basis of surveys or surveys on health-related issues.
They must cover the following areas:
personal health and well-being;
personal hygiene;
physical, psychological and social development;
developmental disabilities;
gender identity;
children and adolescents;
education and training;
economic activity;
environmental factors;
employment;
organisation of the enterprise;
participation of the population in the EU.
National data collection
The European Commission collects the data from administrative sources. It also collects data on those areas through other sources, such as national statistics and surveys.
the data are collected on the following:
health and social indicators,
health indicators, and surveys,
the number of people covered by the EU statistical system,
employment statistics,
social indicators and surveys;
public health indicators, including the number of pregnant women,
children under the age of 18,
persons with disabilities,
participants in education and training,
people in the labour market and
children in the care of the elderly.
In addition, EU countries must provide data on:
children,
women and adolescents,
infants,
e.g. neonatal deaths (deaths up to 28 days) and
infant deaths.
Quality of health and quality of care
The quality of healthcare must be considered in the data collection and the quality of the data collected.
Information must be made available to the European Commission and the European Statistical System (Eurostat).
The Commission must ensure that the data are treated as confidential within the meaning of Article 13 of the European Data Protection Regulation (EDR) No 322/97 (see summary).
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
It has applied since 1 January 2014.
BACKGROUND
The EU has adopted a second programme of Community action in the field of health (2008-2013) to develop a sustainable health monitoring system with mechanisms for collection of comparable data and information, with appropriate indicators.
For more information, see:
‘Health’ on Eurostat's website.
MAIN DOCUMENT
  И   бранска гланта нашка
Commission Implementing Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 550/2013 of 21 December 2013 on the collection, transmission and dissemination of statistics and indicators on health (OJ L 347, 21.12.2013, pp. 1-2)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EU, Euromodal) No 540/2013 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
Regulating (EC), Euratom No 553/2013 on the European statistical system (EC).
See consolidated version.
Council Decision No 1350/2007/EC of 23 October 2007 establishing a second Programme of Community Action in the area of health for the period 2008-2013 (2008–2013) establishing a framework for the development of a sustainable and reliable Community statistical system and establishing a statistical element of the Community Statistical Programme (2007–2013).
last update 04.02.2014



Summary 147:
EU statistics on job vacancies: quarterly production of statistics
EU studies on job vacancy
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 322/97 laying down the requirements for the regular quarterly production and transmission of statistics on Community job vacancies
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It lays down EU-wide rules on the production of quarterly statistics on EU job vacancies.
It aims to improve the quality of European Union (EU) statistics by:
improving the reliability and comparability of the data;
ensuring the comparability between EU countries’ statistics;
providing a clearer picture of the EU’s labour market.
KEY POINTS
EU countries are required to:
produce quarterly data on the number of job vacancies in the EU;
use business surveys to produce these data; and
apply seasonal adjustment procedures to the quarterly job vacancy data.
They must transmit the data to the European Commission (Eurostat) every quarter.
The data must be collected using business surveys. They must include:
the number of jobs available in each EU country;
the average number of vacancies for each job;
a description of the nature and duration of the job vacancies;
information on the nature of the vacancies and the reasons for them.
These statistics must be transmitted to Eurostat, which transmits them to the Council of the European Union, the European Parliament and the European Economic and Social Committee (ESC) every 3 years.
Eurostat:
assesses the quality and reliability of the statistics transmitted by EU countries;
prepares a report on the data transmitted;
publishes the results of the studies;
establishes a list of the countries that have complied with the regulation;
assists the Commission in the preparation of the report.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
The regulation has applied since 24 June 1997.
BACKGROUND
The Regulation is part of the Action Plan on EMU Statistical Requirements, which was endorsed by the Council on 29 September 2000, and subsequent progress reports on the implementation of that plan, identified as a priority the development of a legal basis covering job vacancy statistics.
For more information, see:
‘EU job vacancies’ on Eurostat's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Quarterly job vacancy: data on vacancies for a specific job in an EU country.
ACT
Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 332/97 of 24 June 1998 laying down requirements for quarterly production, transmission and dissemination of Community statistics on jobs.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Commission Implementing Regulation (EU).
-
OJ L 183 of 24.6.1998
RELATED ACTS
Council Framework Decision 2008/852/EC of 27 May 2008 on the establishment of a statistical programme for the EU (Official Journal C 202 of 27.5.2008).
Last updated: 24.07.2008



Summary 148:
EU type-approval of hydrogen-powered vehicles
EU type of approval of hydrogen vehicles
SUMMARY OF:
Directive 2009/33/EC — type-approved hydrogen-power vehicles
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DIRECTIVE?
   
 
It sets out rules for the design, manufacture, testing and installation of hydrogen systems and their components in hydrogen vehicles.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The directive applies to:
vehicles designed to use liquid hydrogen;
transport systems and components intended for use in such vehicles;
hydrogen containers designed to contain liquid hydrogen.
It does not apply to hydrogen systems intended for stationary applications.
Requirements for the installation of the hydrogen systems
The vehicle manufacturer must:
install the hydrogen system and its components in the vehicle in accordance with the requirements laid down in Annex II of the directive;
carry out the necessary tests to ensure that the system complies with the directive’s requirements;
ensure that the components are installed correctly and that they do not leak internally at a higher rate than a specified number of litres.
The test procedures for hydrogen containers must include:
a burst test;
a maximum filling level test; and
a leak test.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS DIRECTIVE APPLY?
It has applied since 1 January 2009.
BACKGROUND
The European Union (EU) has been developing a comprehensive system for the approval of motor vehicles that use hydrogen. This is known as the ‘H2+’ directive.
For more information, see:
‘Electric vehicles’ on the European Commission's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Hydrogen system: a system consisting of a fuel cell, a nozzle, a fuel pump, a compressor and a nozzle.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Directive 2009/3/EC of 21 December 2009 on type-applying the principle of hydrogen to motor vehicles
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Regulation (EC) No 596/2009
1.1.2010
-
OJ L 347 of 21.12.2009
last update 04.02.2010



Summary 149:
Access to the internal market in natural gas
Assessment of the conditions for access to the natural gas transmission system in the European Union (EU)
Assessing the conditions to be met by transmission system operators
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 1775/2005 on conditions for accessing to the transmission networks in the EU
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out rules for the access of natural gas system operators to the EU’s internal market.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to:
the transmission system operator (TSO) for natural gas;
the European Network of Transmission System Operators for Gas (ENTSO for Gas);
the natural gas market operator (NGO);
natural gas market participants.
It does not apply to pipelines.
Access to networks
Transmission system operators must:
provide information on the status and efficiency of the system;
make available on request to those affected by any disruption;
publish at least annually, by a predetermined deadline, all planned maintenance periods that might affect network users’ other areas and in order to ensure equal benefits with respect to security of supply including in relation to transit.
Provide and publish non-discriminatory and transparent congestion-management procedures to facilitate cross-border exchanges in gas on a non-discrimination, transparent and proportionate basis.
Ensuring transparency
Network users must publish and publish information on:
demand and supply statistics;
capacity allocation mechanisms and congestion management procedures;
planned maintenance periods;
network users who wish to re-sell or sublet their unused contracted capacity on the secondary market;
information on the reasons for movements in the wholesale price.
The European Commission may request the ENTSOgensat for Gas Agency to prepare a network code on the basis of a framework guideline. The Commission may launch a further consultation in the course of preparing a draft network code under this paragraph.
Network operators must ensure that:
information is made available to all market participants, including the public, on a daily basis;
transmission system users are informed of any planned maintenance or repair work;
all planned maintenance and repair work must be notified to the public;
any planned maintenance is notified to network users.
In the event of contractual congestion, transmission system users must be offered unused capacity on a day-ahead and interruptible basis, and network users are entitled to do so.
Tariffs for access
The EU must set tariffs for access. These tariffs must be:
fair and transparent;
not restrict market liquidity and distort trade across borders of different transmission systems.
They must be based on the following principles:
transparency;
non-discrimination;
equity of access;
fairness of access.
Regulatory authority
The regulatory authority:
must:
take the necessary measures to ensure that tariffs are transparent and fair;
ensure that tariffs do not discriminate between network users and do not hamper the entry of new market entrants;
take appropriate measures to prevent, deter or deter market abuse;
have a deterrent effect on market abuse.
Penalties for market abuse
The competent authorities must be given the competence to investigate effectively allegations of market abuse and to take appropriate action.
FROM WHEN DOES THE DIRECTIVE APPLY?
Directive 2009/73/EC has applied since 1 July 2006 and had to become law in the Member States by 1 July 2007.
BACKGROUND
The transmission system is one of the most important components of the EU gas market and is essential to ensure the smooth functioning of the internal gas market. It is also essential for the efficient and secure supply of gas.
For more information, see:
‘The internal market’ on the European Commission's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Transmission system operator: a natural gas network operator.
ACT
Commission Implementing Decision 2009/74/EC of 1 July 2009 on the application of the Regulation on Conditions for Access to the Transmission Networks of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2009 concerning common rules for access and conditions for congestion management of the transmission systems in the Internal Market in Natural Gas.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in Member States
Official Journal
Council Directive 2009/54/EC
1.7.2009
-
OJ L 127 of 1.7, 2009
RELATED ACTS
Commission Delegated Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 552/2014 of 27 June 2014 on the implementation of the Framework Guidelines for the Access and Regulation on the Access to Transmission Networks for the Internal Markets in Natural gas (OJ C 202, 28.6.2014, pp. 1-2)
Commission Regulation (EC, Euromodal) No 752/2013 of 27 May 2013 on the harmonisation of the rules on the access and regulation of



Summary 150:
Judicial cooperation in civil matters between EU countries and non-EU countries: mutual recognition and mutual recognition agreements
Joint recognition agreements (JARs)
Judicial Cooperation in Civil Matters between EU States and third countries
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 552/2009 on mutual recognition* agreements between Member States and countries of the European Union (EU)
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes a legal framework for the conclusion of bilateral agreements between the European Community (now the EU) and its Member States on matters of mutual recognition.
It aims to facilitate the exchange of information between the Commission and the Member States in order to improve the quality of judicial cooperation.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to the following areas:
jurisdiction and jurisdiction of the Court of Justice of a Member State or of a third country;
judicial cooperation;
rules on the interpretation and application of the law of the Member State concerned.
Notification to the Commission
Member States must notify the Commission of ongoing or already announced negotiations with a view to obtaining authorisation to open formal negotiations on an agreement or to conclude an agreement. Such notification should be given by letter or by electronic means.
The Commission must assess whether the envisaged agreement meets the conditions set out in Article 4(2) of the regulation. If the Commission considers that the agreement meets these conditions, it may authorise it to open or continue formal negotiations.
Authorisation to conclude the agreement
The Member State must submit a report on the negotiations to the European Parliament, the Council and the European Commission within 90 days of receiving the notification. The Commission must then give its opinion on the agreement’s constitutionality.
If the Commission does not consider that a sufficient Community interest has emerged, it must decide whether to open the negotiations or not. If it considers that there is no Community interest, it will not authorise the agreement to be concluded. If, on the basis of its assessment, the Commission intends not to authorise conclusion of the negotiated agreement, it shall give an opinion to the EU country concerned, as well as to European Parliament and to the Council, within 30 days of its decision.
In addition, Member States must provide the Commission with information on:
the nature and scope of the agreement;
the number and duration of the negotiations; and
the reasons for not concluding the agreement.
Exceptions to the above rules
The Regulation does not apply to:
mutual recognition agreements;
joint declarations of interest;
exchange of information on the subject matter and scope;
cooperation agreements on civil matters.
Amendments to the regulation
The European Commission may amend or conclude agreements with third countries relating to areas of civil justice that come within the purview of Title IV of Part Three of the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU (see summary). It may also conclude new agreements with countries that fall within the scope of Article 11 of the Regulation.
References
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition into force
Official Journal
Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 550/2009
7.7.2009
-
OJ L 127 of 7.7, 2009
RELATED ACTS
Report from the Commission on the implementation of Council Regulation (Euratom), Euratom and Commission Implementing Decision 2009/973/EC of 7 July 2009 on the mutual recognition agreement between the EU and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland (OJ C 202, 7.8.2009, pp. 1-8)
last update 14.02.2016



Summary 151:
Statistics on asylum and migration
Statistics on migration
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 343/2003 on the collection and analysis of Community statistics in the field of migration
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out the rules for the collection, analysis and dissemination of EU statistics on migration and asylum.
It repeals Regulation (EEC) 311/76.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to:
the number of requests for taking back or taking charge of an asylum seeker;
the provisions on which the requests are based;
all decisions taken in response to the requests referred to in point (a);
the numbers of transfers to which the decisions lead;
requests for information.
EU countries must provide the European Commission (Eurostat) with:
information on the number of applications for asylum and residence permits and residence of third-country nationals;
data on the numbers of requests to take back or take charge of a non-EU country’s nationals.
The statistics must relate to reference periods of one calendar year and must be supplied to Eurostat within 6 months of the end of the reference year.
National authorities must:
provide the Commission with information on:
all requests for asylum;
number of applications to take-back or take-charge of an applicant;
total number of asylum applications received;
percentage of applications received by the Commission.
Data must be disaggregated by age and sex, and by the citizenship of the concerned.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULATE APPLACE APPLY?
From 20 August 2009.
BACKGROUND
Asylum and migration statistics are a key element of EU policy. They contribute to the development of the European asylum system.
For more information, see:
‘Asylum’ on Eurostat's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Asylum seeker: a person who is a national of an EU country and who has applied for asylum in another EU country.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EU) No343/2003 of 20 August 2003 laying down detailed rules on the application of Council Regulation No 311/1976/EC on the exchange of statistics on the reception of asylum seekers (OJ L 343, 20.8.2003, pp. 1-7)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 344/2003 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 14.02.2016



Summary 152:
Auditing of public-interest entities: quality assurance and the appointment of statutory auditors and audit firms in the European Union (EU)
Auditing and the selection of statutory auditor and audit firm in the EU
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 596/2006 on the quality assurance of statutory audits of public interest entities
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to improve the quality of statutory audit* and to ensure the independence of audit firms.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to:
the statutory audit of:
public interest entities;
public-interest companies;
financial institutions;
other bodies and bodies responsible for the financial management of the EU’s financial system.
It does not apply to statutory audits carried out by the European Banking Authority (EBA) or the European Insurance and Occupational Pension Fund (EIOPA).
It covers:
audits carried out in relation to the financial statements of the European Commission;
statutory audits of EU countries’ national central banks;
regulatory audits of financial institutions.
Quality assurance
Each statutory auditor or each audit firm carrying out audits of a public interest entity is subject to a quality assurance review on the basis of an analysis of the risks involved. The audit committee is established to secure the audit.
The quality control review must be organised in such a way as to ensure that the audit results are consistent with the objectives of the statutory audit and that they do not present a risk to the public interest.
Dismissal and resignation of the auditor or the audit firms
Any competent authority designated by an EU country must forward the information concerning the dismissal or resignation during the engagement and an adequate explanation of the reasons therefor to the competent authority referred to in Article 20(2) of the regulation. The competent authority of the other EU country will take appropriate action.
FROM WHEN DOES THE REGULE APPLY?
   
 
It applies from 1 January 2007.
BACKGROUND
  The regulation is part of a package of measures designed to improve audit quality in the financial sector.
For more information, see:
‘Auditing for the public’ on the EBA's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Statutory audit: an audit of a statutory entity. A statutory audit is an audit performed by a statutory auditor for the purpose of assessing the financial position of an entity. It is also important to provide for an appropriate period within which such statutory auditor may not carry out the same audit of the same entity.
MAIN DOCUMENT
 			
Council Regulation (EC, EC) No 550/2006 of 21 December 2006 on the Quality Assurance and the Appointment of Statutory Auditors and Audit Firms (OJ L 31, 1.1.2006, pp. 1-2)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EU, EC, EC and EC) have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
                   	
                                   
                       Commission Regulation (EEC, EIOPA) No 652/2014 of 27 December 2014 on the establishment of the Committee on the Auditing and Auditing of Public-Interest Businesses (CEAOB) (Codified version).
See consolidated version.
last update 04.02.2016



Summary 153:
Conservation and management of fishery resources in the Mediterranean Sea (CFP) and the management of fisheries targeting them (SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 1380/2013 on the conservation and management measures for the sustainable exploitation of marine biological resources
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out the rules for the conservation, management and control of marine living resources (MBS) in the European Union (EU).
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to:
the Mediterranean Sea
the Atlantic Ocean
the Black Sea and the Black Sea.
It does not apply to the Atlantic Ocean, the North Sea, the Baltic Sea or the North Atlantic Ocean.
Scope
It applies to all EU Member States’ exclusive economic zones (EEZs).
It covers the following areas:
Atlantic Ocean
Black Sea
The Black Sea
North Atlantic
The Atlantic Ocean and the North Pacific Ocean
The Baltic Sea
Black Seas
The North Atlantic
the South Atlantic.
Management
The European Commission is responsible for the implementation of the CFP. It is assisted by the Advisory Councils for the Conservation and Management of Marine Living Resources (ACMNR).
The CFP is implemented by delegated acts adopted by the Commission.
The Commission adopts multiannual plans and implementing acts. These aim at:
promoting the sustainable use of the MBS;
improving the conservation of the stocks covered by the plan;
ensuring the long-term sustainability of the stock;
the sustainable management of stocks;
reducing overfishing;
restoring the diversity and diversity of stocks.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCEASE-MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 1282/2013 of 27 November 2013 on the Conservation, Management and Control of Marine Biological Resources (CMS) (CMP) (OJ L 140, 28.11.2013, pp. 1-2)
Successive amendments to Regulation (Euratom(2013) have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
Commission Regulation (EC) No 1967/2006 of 21 December 2006 concerning management measures to conserve and manage fishery stocks and fisheries targeting the Mediterranean sea and repealing Council Regulations (EC, EC, EC) No 1626/94 and (EC).
Commission Implementing Decision 2014/852/EU of 27 June 2014 on the implementation and monitoring of the Common Fisheries Policy (CFSP).
This implementing decision establishes a framework for the monitoring, monitoring and evaluation of the implementation, monitoring, evaluation, evaluation and monitoring activities of the Commission’s fisheries policy. It also establishes the responsibilities of the European Commission and of the advisory councils.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
Council Decision (EU), Euratom and Commission Implementing Decisions 2013/1282/EU and 2014/976/EU have applied since 1 July 2013.
BACKGROUND
The Mediterranean Sea is one of the most important fishing grounds in the world and is a major source of economic activity for the EU.
For more information, see:
‘Fishery management’ on the Commission's website.
KEY TERMS
* MBS: a marine biological resource that includes fish, crustaceans, mussels and crustacean species.
* DECISION: a decision by the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee for Fisheries and Aquaculture to adopt a common fishing policy for the Mediterranean.
ACT
Council Resolution of 27 May 2013 on conservation and control measures for marine biological Resources (OJR) (Official Journal L 140 of 27.6.2013)
last update 14.02.2015



Summary 154:
Common organisation of the markets in fishery and aquaculture products (CMO)
Common operation of the fisheries markets in the EU
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 1380/2013 establishing a common organisation of markets
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes a common framework for the placing on the market of fishery products* in the European Union (EU).
It aims to improve the conditions for these products to be marketed.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to:
producer organisations* and inter-branch organisations* recognised in at least one or more EU countries;
the European Commission and the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) of the European Economic Area (EEA);
the Commission.
Objectives
The CMO is an integral part of the Common Fisheries Policy (CFP) and should contribute to achieving the objectives of the CFP. It is designed to foster market stability and a closer correlation between supply and demand.
The objective of the regulation is to ensure that:
the products are marketed in accordance with the best available scientific advice;
they comply with the conservation requirements and international obligations of the EU’s fisheries policy;
their quality, size, weight, packaging, presentation or labelling requirements are in line with those of the International Union for the Conservation of Wild Fauna and Flora (IUCF) and of the World Health Organization (WFO);
they meet the requirements of the Convention on the Law of the Functioning of the Sea (COS) and the International Labour Organization (COTOJHA) on the protection of wild fauna and flora and fauna;
there are minimum marketing sizes corresponding, where relevant, to minimum conservation reference sizes.
Requirements for producers
Producer organisations must:
prepare and submit to the competent authorities of their EU countries a production and marketing plan containing the measures necessary for them to fulfil their objectives;
provide the Commission with a copy of the plan;
submit to the EFSA of the EEA, the European Commission or the European Maritime and Fisheries Agency (EMSA) with the details of the products they intend to market;
ensure that their products meet the standards set out in the CMO;
promote the sustainable use of fish stocks;
make sure that their members’ products comply with all the requirements laid down in the regulation.
Member organisations
The European Commission may decide to extend the rules to non-EU countries.
Liability
The Member State concerned may decide that non-members are liable for the costs paid by the producer organisation or the Inter-Branch organisation as a result of the application of the rules that have been extended to them.
Authorisation
The Commission may authorise the Member States to extend these rules for a limited period of time, including by tacit agreement, without an explicit renewal of the authorisation. This authorisation is subject to authorisation by the Commission. The Member States must inform the Commission of the reasons for the extension.
Exemptions
Member States may exclude certain products from the scope of this regulation if they consider that they do not meet the following criteria:
they do not fulfil the objectives set out above;
those products do not comply with conservation requirements or international obligations; or
they are not in compliance with the standards laid down by the EUCF or the IUCF.
In addition, Member States may exempt certain products which are in breach of the following requirements:
fishery stocks have been used up.
Products which are not used up may not be marketed until such stocks are used up;
products that are in excess of the stocks covered by this regulation are not marketed until stocks are exhausted;
fishing stocks which are over-exploited or over-fished may be used up until stocks have not been exhausted.
Conservation requirements
Member countries must ensure that products are preserved and marketed according to conservation standards.
Restrictions on the marketing of preserved products
Member states may impose restrictions on the sale of preserved and preserved products in order to protect the species concerned. These restrictions may include:
limits on the number of products that may be sold;
restrictions of the quantity of products which may be marketed;
rules on the storage mechanism;
requests for the storage of products;
minimum marketing sizes;
exemptions of products from certain species;
prohibitions on the use of certain species.
Rules on the labelling of products.
Non-members may be liable for all or part of costs paid to the producer organisations or the inter-branch organisations for the equivalent of the costs incurred by members.
References
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member State
Official Journal
Council Regulation (EC) No 1224/2009
-
OJ L 139, 30.4.



Summary 155:
Securities clearing and settlement systems: European Securities and Derivatives Departments (CSDs)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 552/2014 on the establishment of securities clearing systems
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes a framework for the establishment and operation of securities settlement systems* by securities clearing and payment systems (CSD) in the European Union (EU).
It aims to ensure that CSDs are able to:
operate in a transparent, efficient and transparent manner;
provide a high level of security and security-related services;
ensure that they comply with the requirements of the EU’s securities settlement system (SSS) rules;
have a clear and transparent governance structure.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to all CSDs established in the EU. It does not apply to CSDs operating in non-EU countries.
Authorisation
A CSD must be authorised to provide any banking-type ancillary services and a credit institution designated in accordance with Directive 2014/65/EU (see summary). It must comply with all the conditions laid down in the regulation.
It must:
be established in an EU country;
be based in that country and have its registered office in the country in which it is established;
not have its head office in another EU country.
Provide the competent authority with all information necessary for authorisation, including:
the name and address of the CSDATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE;
the number of employees;
a description of the company;
its assets and liabilities
the amount of capital and liabilities.
The competent to grant or refuse authorisation.
In addition, a CSD may provide non-banking-type services in addition to the services listed in the annex to the regulation, such as:
clearing and payment services,
investment management and risk management;
transmission of information to the competent authorities;
assistance in the implementation of the rules of the SSS;
access to its assets, where required;
capital, together with retained earnings and reserves, which must be proportional to the risks stemming from the activities of the institution.
EU countries’ competent authorities must ensure that:
a CSD has the necessary financial resources to meet its obligations;
it has sufficient capital and reserves to cover its liabilities and capital requirements;
there is sufficient liquidity to cover the risks arising from its activities.
An EU country must ensure the following:
its CSDs have sufficient liquidity;
they have sufficient capital to cover their liabilities;
their assets are in a sound and liquid state.
They have sufficient assets to meet their obligations, including their capital requirements, and they have sufficient reserves to meet the obligations arising from their activities;
in addition, they have enough assets to cover all their obligations arising out of their activities, including the capital requirements for:
capital requirements,
capital adequacy requirements and requirements for capital adequacy;
reserves,
assets and liabilities,
asset adequacy and liquidity requirements.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
The Regulation has applied since 18 June 2014. EU countries had to incorporate it into national law by 18 June 2015.
BACKGROUND
The CSD sector is one of the most important components of the European financial system and plays a key role in the functioning of the financial markets.
For more information, see:
Securities settlement systems (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Securities settlement system: a system where securities are traded on a regulated market.
* Settlement system: the system in which securities are settled by a centralised centralised settlement system.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Decision 2014/552/EU of 18 May 2014 establishing a framework establishing a securities clearing system (CSDS) (OJ L 127, 18.5.2014, pp. 1-2)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EU, No 553/2014 have been incorporated into the original document. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 14.02.2016



Summary 156:
Cohesion Fund for transport infrastructure projects — rules on the allocation of financial support (2014-2020)
Cohesion fund for transport Infrastructure projects — details on the application of the Cohesion Fund
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 1316/2013 establishing the European Regional Development Fund
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes the European regional development fund (ERDF) to support projects in the fields of environment and trans-European networks in the area of transport infrastructure.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The ERDF is the main instrument of the EU’s social cohesion policy. It is designed to contribute to the sustainable development of the European Union (EU).
It is funded by the European Investment Bank (EIB) and the European Social Fund (ESF).
The main objective of the ERDF and the ESI is to:
reduce greenhouse gas emissions from transport infrastructure;
improve the environmental performance of the transport sector;
contribute to the creation of a low-carbon economy in Europe.
The objectives of the EDF are set out in Annex I to Directive 2003/87/EC on the reduction of greenhouse gas emission from activities listed in Annex II to the European Parliament and of the Council.
Specific provisions concerning the type of activities which can be supported by the ESD are laid down in Annex III to the directive. These include:
transport infrastructure projects of European added value;
environmental projects;
trans-European transport networks;
traffic management projects.
Eligible projects
The ESD is open to projects of common interest.
Trans-European infrastructure projects are eligible for support under the Connecting Europe Facility.
Projects eligible for ESD
The European Commission may grant ESDF financial support to projects that meet the following criteria:
they must:
have an environmental impact of at least 0.5 % of the total gross domestic product (GDP) for the period 2014-2020;
have the potential to reduce GHG emissions by at least 1 % of total GDP.
they have to comply with the following requirements:
be based on a common and programme-specific output indicator;
be designed and implemented in line with the EU emissions reduction targets;
meet the requirements of the Paris Agreement on climate change.
In addition, projects must comply with:
the principles of sustainable development;
the objectives and principles of environmental protection;
measures to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases (GHG emissions) from transport;
projects to improve the efficiency of transport systems;
use of energy efficiency and energy efficiency technologies;
cost-effective and environmentally sound transport systems.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
The regulation entered into force on 21 December 2013. It repeals Regulation (EC) No 1084/2006 (see summary).
BACKGROUND
The EU has adopted a number of measures to tackle climate change, in particular:
Directive 2003/88/EC establishing a European Green Deal (see Summary);
Directives 2003/89/EC and 2003/90/EC (see Annex II).
For more information, see:
European Green Deal on transport (European Commission).
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (Euratom) No 1303/2013 of 21 November 2013 establishing the Regional development fund for infrastructure (OJ L 10, 21.12.2013, pp. 1-2)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EU, No 1302/2013 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
Regulations (EC, Euratom) 2015/852/EU of the Commission of 21 October 2015 establishing the framework for the implementation of the Regional Development fund for the European Economic Area and repealing Regulations (EEC, EEA) No 552/2013 and (EC), No 553/2013 (OCT) No 652/2014 and (EEA) No 852/2015 (see consolidated version).
Commission Implementing Decision 2014/856/EU on the establishment of a European Regional development Fund for Infrastructure (EURO) and repealing Directives (EUC) No 496/2013, (EUT) No 796/2012 and (EET) No 996/2014 (see amending act(s)).
last update 14.02.2020



Summary 157:
European Regional Development Fund
European regional development fund
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 establishing the European Regional development fund (ERDF)
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes the framework for the EU’s Economic and Social Fund, known as the ERDF.
It aims to contribute to reducing disparities between the levels of development of the various regions and to reducing the backwardness of the least favoured regions, among which particular attention is to be paid to regions which suffer from severe and permanent natural or demographic handicaps such as the northernmost regions with very low population density and island, cross-border and mountain regions.
KEY POINTS
The ERDF is the main instrument of the European territorial cooperation goal.
The aim of this goal is to:
reduce disparities between regions’ development levels and to reduce their backwardness;
improve the quality of life in the least developed regions;
contribute to the growth and jobs of the most disadvantaged regions; and
improve economic and social cohesion in the most deprived regions, in particular in the north and the south.
To achieve these objectives, the aim is to support the creation of an urban development network and the development of sustainable urban areas, as well as to promote the sustainable development of rural areas.
Specific provisions concerning the type of activities which can be supported by the ERDP are set out in the thematic objectives. These include:
the creation of a sustainable urban area;
the development of urban areas and the sustainable urban environment
the sustainable urbanisation of regions
the implementation of urban development networks
the urban development of cities and towns
the management of the urban areas
the promotion of sustainable rural areas and of sustainable tourism and tourism.
In addition, the objectives of the EU territorial cooperation goals are:
to contribute to the creation and development of a more dynamic and dynamic economy;
to improve the quality and sustainability of the environment
to promote sustainable development in the south and south-eastern regions
to develop sustainable urban environments
to support the development and sustainable urbanization of the north, south and east.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDERDF APPLY?
The regulation applies from 31 December 2013.
BACKGROUND
The European Regional Development fund was established under Article 174 TFEU of the Treaty on European Union (TFEU).
For more information, see:
European Territorial Development Fund (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Regional development funds: the European regional development funds are the main instruments of the common European territorial policy.
* Territorial cooperation goal: the aim of which is to promote regional cooperation between the EU countries.
ACT
Council Regulation (EC) No 1080/2006/EC of 31 October 2006 establishing the framework of the Economic, Social and Directives for Regional Development Funds (EURDF) (OJ L 304, 31.10.2006, pp. 1-2)
last update 14.02.2016



Summary 158:
The European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) and the European Territorial Investment Fund (ETIF) (European territorial investment)
The European regional development fund (ERTF) and European territorial investment fund (EUTIF)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 on the European Regional development fund
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
 
   
It sets out the rules for the EU’s regional development funds (ERGDF) which are designed to contribute to reducing disparities between the levels of development of the various regions and to reducing the backwardness of the least favoured regions, among which particular attention is to be paid to rural areas, areas affected by industrial transition, and regions which suffer from severe and permanent natural or demographic handicaps such as the northernmost regions with very low population density and island, cross-border and mountain regions.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The ERDF is designed to:
contribute to the sustainable development of regions and areas in the European Union (EU);
provide financial support for the development of rural areas;
support rural areas and areas which are disadvantaged by the effects of industrial transition;
improve the quality of life of the most disadvantaged regions;
promote sustainable development in mountain regions and coastal regions, particularly in the south-eastern regions and in the north-western regions, in the Baltic Sea.
Objectives
Objective criteria for designating eligible regions
The objective criteria are set out in Annex I of the criteria for the ERDF.
The criteria include:
the geographical coverage of the regions and the geographical area;
the development of urban areas,
the quality of living conditions
the economic and social situation in urban areas
the socio-economic situation in the most deprived regions
the level of development in the least disadvantaged regions
development of the rural areas
quality of life in the coastal areas
development in the mountain regions
economic development in coastal regions
integrated territorial investment.
Regional cooperation
The aim of regional cooperation programmes is to promote regional cooperation between EU countries and the regions of the EU.
Cooperation programmes are organised in the form of:
interregional cooperation programmes;
cooperation programmes with non-EU countries and non-EEA countries.
Eligible regions
EU countries must:
designate regions with a population density of at least 1.5 % of the total population of an EU country,
participate in a regional cooperation programme with at least 2 EU countries,
support the implementation of projects and programmes designed to improve the quality and sustainability of the environment and the quality, safety and health of the people in the regions,
develop and implement joint action plans.
In addition, the EU countries must ensure that:
projects and programmes are designed and implemented in line with the objectives of the programme;
programmes are designed with a specific thematic concentration, i.e. the programme is based on a specific objective;
projects are designed for specific geographical areas and regions, such as mountain regions, coastal regions and maritime regions, and
the programme is designed with the aim of promoting sustainable development.
Management and evaluation
The managing authority of an ERDF programme is responsible for the management and implementation of an integrated territorial investment (ITI) programme. It is assisted by a group of auditors composed of a representative from each EU country or third country participating in the cooperation programme and carrying out the functions provided for in Article 127 of the regulation. The managing authority must ensure the implementation and monitoring of the ITI programme, including:
monitoring and evaluation of the results of the investment;
implementing the programme and the evaluation plan;
drawing up, evaluating and monitoring the progress of projects;
preparing and implementing the implementation plan.
Monitoring and monitoring evaluations
The management authority must submit annual reports to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions. These reports must include a description of the programmes and projects that have received ERDF support and their results. The ERDF must also submit a report on the effectiveness, efficiency and impact of those programmes.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULATIONS APPLY?

  It has applied since 1 January 2014.
BACKGROUND
The EU is the largest economy in terms of gross domestic product (GDP) and has the largest territorial area (GNDP) in the world.
For more information, see:
‘Regional development funds’ on the Commission's website.
MAIN DOCUMENT
 			
Council Decision 2014/852/EU of 21 December 2014 on the establishment of the European Rural Development Fund and establishing an Interregional Investment Fund for Europe (EURDF).
Successive amendments to Regulation (EC) No 852/2014 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.



Summary 159:
Smart grids: smart energy infrastructure
Smart energy infrastructure: smart grids
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 552/2013 on smart grids and energy infrastructure — smart infrastructure
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to ensure that smart grids* are built and operated in the European Union (EU).
It sets out the criteria for the selection of smart grids (i.e. energy infrastructure) projects and the conditions under which they can be approved.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to projects falling under the categories ‘smart grids’, ‘transmission infrastructure’ and ‘interoperability’.
It does not apply to:
the transmission infrastructure of the EU Member States;
the energy infrastructure of non-EU countries;
energy infrastructure for the EU’s internal market.
The rules apply to projects in the following categories:
smart grids;
transmission and interconnectivity;
electricity;
natural gas transmission infrastructure;
gas transmission infrastructure.
Decision-making procedure
The European Commission and the European Agency for the Safety of Oil and Gas (ESA) are responsible for the decision-making process for smart grids. They must ensure that the project is taken within the time limit set out in Article 10(1) of the regulation.
They must:
take into account the public interest;
ensure that the decision is taken in the best interest of the country in which the project will be located;
take account of the environmental and social and economic aspects;
economic considerations;
make the best interests of the project;
assess the impact of the projects on the economy and the environment;
apply the criteria listed in Annex II.
Cost allocation
The cost of the smart grid projects must be borne by the relevant TSOAs or the project promoters of the transmission infrastructure in the Member States to which the smart grids will provide a net positive impact, and, to the extent not covered by congestion rents or other charges, be paid for by network users through tariffs for network access in that or those Member States.
A cost allocation decision must be published in the Official Journal of the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission. It must contain the following information:
net positive impact;
cost-benefit analysis;
impact assessment;
environmental impact assessment.
Implementation and monitoring
EU countries must ensure the following measures are in place to ensure the proper implementation and monitoring of the regulations:
monitoring of the implementation of the rules;
implementing the regulation;
regular reporting to the European Commission on the implementation, monitoring and monitoring measures taken by the Commission, the European Atomic Energy Community (Euratom), the European Energy Agency (EEA) and the ENTSO for Gas.
Monitoring and monitoring activities
The EEA and the EEA are required to report to the Commission every 3 years on the progress made on the regulation and to the EU countries on the monitoring measures they have taken.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULATIONS APPLY?
   
It has applied since 30 September 2013. EU countries had to incorporate it into national law by 30 September 2014.
BACKGROUND
 
The Regulation is part of the Europe 2020 strategy, which aims to reduce energy consumption in the EU by 20 % by 2020.
For more information, see:
Smart grids (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Smart grids: a network of interconnected energy infrastructure that is designed and operated by a single company or group of companies.
* Interoperability: the ability of a network to operate in different parts of the world, such as the transmission and distribution of electricity, gas, water and thermal energy.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 529/2013 of 30 June 2013 establishing a European smart grid (OJ L 131, 30.6.2013, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EEC) No 530/2013 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 14.02.2016



Summary 160:
Consumers’ Rights Online (DRO) platform
Consumers' Rights Online(DRO)* platform
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 552/2013 on the consumer rights online (DROE) platform and on the complaint procedure
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
   
 
It aims to ensure that consumers’ rights online are respected.
It sets up the Online Consumer Rights (ODR) platform.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to all online transactions in the EU, including:
online sales and services;
online rentals;
services and products offered on the internet.
EU countries must ensure that the ODR platform is available to all consumers.
Complaints
ADR entities to which a complaint has been transmitted must:
provide the complainant with a complaint form;
ensure that the complainant has access to a case management tool;
make the complainant’s name and contact details available to the ADR entity.
The complaint form must be easily accessible for consumers. It must contain:
the name and address of the complainant;
the date and time of the complaint;
a description of the goods and services involved;
details of the product or service offered;
information on the conditions and conditions applicable to online sales and service contracts.
Dispute resolution mechanism
The complainant must submit a dispute resolution mechanism to ADR entities. This mechanism must be:
based on the information provided by the consumer;
specifically on the nature and content of the dispute;
made up of a link between the complaint and the complaint mechanism;
comprising at least 2 ADR contact points.
FROM WHEN DOES IT APPLY?
It has applied since 9 July 2013. EU countries had to incorporate it into national law by 9 July 2014.
BACKGROUND
The EU has adopted a number of measures to protect consumers online. These include:
Directive (EU) 2017/852 on consumer rights (see summary);
Delegated Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2018/853 on consumer data protection (see overview);
Directives (EU and Euratom, Euratox) 2018 and 2018/955 on the protection of consumer data (see review).
For more information, see:
‘Online consumer rights’ on the European Commission's website.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Commission Implementing Regulation (EC, 552) 2013
9.7.2013
-
OJ L 127, 9.7-9.2013, pp. 1-2
Amending act(s)
Entry in force
Date of transposition: 9.8.2014
- The European Commission repeals Council Regulation (Euratom) No 496/2004.
RELATED ACTS
Commission Delegated Regulations (EURATox) No 1/2018 and (EU), Euratom of 9.9.2018 on consumer protection (OJ C 202, 10.10.2018, p. 1)
Commission implementing Regulation (Euroatom) 2019/854 of 9 May 2019 on consumer information and protection on the e-commerce platform and repealing Council Decision (EEC, Euramatom) 2015/856 on consumer identity and protection of personal data.
last update 04.02.2021



Summary 161:
Single payment scheme for the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) for small and medium-sized enterprises (SAPs)
Single payment system for the common agricultural policy (CAPS)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 596/2013 on the Single Payment Scheme (SPS)
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes a single payment scheme* for the European Union (EU)’s (EU's) common agriculture policy.
It sets out the rules for the allocation of payment entitlements and the convergence of these entitlements.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to all EU countries, except Denmark, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway, Switzerland and the United Kingdom (1).
It does not apply to:
the EU countries that do not have a national reserve;
the countries which do not participate in the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) or the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EURDF);
the European Commission.
EU countries must apply the single payment system in accordance with the following rules:
a declaration of eligible hectares by the farmer. The declaration must include information on the regions targeted, the selected types of farming or sectors, and the level of support to be granted;
a description of the type of farming and the number of hectares to be covered by the scheme.
A notification must be sent to the European Commission by the EU country concerned.
The notification must include:
information on the number and type of land covered;
details of the types of cropland for which are eligible for the scheme;
an estimate of the amount of the total amount of land to be provided by the country concerned;
information about the type and quantity of land for which is eligible.
An EU country must also send a notification to the Commission, which must provide the Commission with a copy of the declaration and a description of how the scheme works.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
The SPS applies from 1 January 2014.
BACKGROUND
The European Union has been implementing the Common Agriculture Policy since 2007. It was amended by Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 652/2013, which introduced the Single payment scheme. The regulation is the first of its kind in the EU.
For more information, see:
The Single Payment System (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Single payment system: a system of payments to farmers for the use of their agricultural land.
* Regional reserve: an EU country is required to establish a regional reserve to provide financial support to farmers in its territory.
ACT
Council Regulation (EEC, EC) No 550/2013 of 1 January 2013 establishing a Single Payment scheme (OJ L 183, 1.1.2013, pp. 1-2)
last update 14.02.2016



Summary 162:
Support programme for the smaller Aegean islands (SAAG)
Support Programme for the small and medium-sized economies of the eastern Mediterranean
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 552/2004 on the support programme for small, medium and micro-sized enterprises in the Eastern Mediterranean
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes a European Union (EU) support programme to help the smaller and medium‑sized economies (SMEs) of the east Mediterranean, particularly those in the Greek islands, which are part of the EU’s common foreign and security policy (CFSP).
KEY POINTS
The SAAG is designed to:
support the development of the economy of the smaller islands;
promote the growth and diversification of the sector;
improve the quality of life of the population;
contribute to the sustainable development of local economies;
provide for the improvement of the conditions of living, working and working conditions of the people on the islands.
The programme covers:
the supply of agricultural products;
the preservation and development of small-scale agricultural production;
research and development projects;
exchange of information and best practices;
training and technical assistance;
monitoring of the implementation of the programme.
Scope
The support programme covers the following areas:
agriculture
the provision of products and services;
development of the local economy;
protection of the environment;
environmental protection.
Specific supply arrangements
The European Commission may adopt delegated acts for specific to the specific supply arrangements.
Sustainable development measures
The Commission may authorise the provision of certain agricultural products, services, including:
exports of certain essential products, such as fertilisers and pesticides, and
exchanges of information on the production and use of those products.
EU countries must ensure that the measures covered by the programme are compatible with EU law and that they comply with the relevant EU legislation.
In addition, the Commission may approve measures for financing studies, demonstration projects, training and technological assistance, provided that they are carried out in conformity with this regulation.
Approval and amendments
The regulation sets out the conditions for the approval and amendments to the programme, as well as the conditions under which the programme may be amended.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
The Regulation has applied since 1 January 2005.
BACKGROUND
The EU has been providing financial assistance to the EU countries which are members of the European Economic Area (EEA).
For more information, see:
‘The European Neighbourhood’ on the European Commission's website.
KEY TERMS
* State aid: the financial assistance provided by the EU to an EU country.
ACT
Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 550/2004 of 21 December 2004 establishing a support programme on the smaller Mediterranean islands (OJ L 183, 31.12.2004, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (Euratom) no 550/04 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
* Small and medium sized enterprises: those whose population is less than 1,000.
MAIN DOCUMENT
 
Commission Regulation (EU), Euratom of 23 December 2004 on the State aid programme for smaller, medium- and micro‐sized enterprises (SSAG) (Codified version).
last update 04.02.2016



Summary 163:
Statistics on road transport: EU countries’ statistical data on journeys between EU countries
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 552/2011 on the collection of statistical data for road transport
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out the rules for the collection and transmission of statistics on the road transport of goods by road in the European Union (EU).
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to:
the transport of the goods (all the basic goods transport operations);
the journeys made by the vehicles carrying out this transport, with details of vehicle capacities and utilisation of these capacities (laden journeys with utilisation coefficient; unladen journeys).
It covers:
vehicle capacities;
load capacity;
the number of kilometres covered during the survey period;
total kilometres covered;
number of countries crossed in transit;
country codes used for the coding of countries crossing in transit (NUTS codes).
The data collected by the EU countries must be transmitted to the European Commission (Eurostat).
EU countries must transmit the data to Eurostat by means of the following methods:
transmission of the NUTS code, as specified in Annex III of the regulation;
data on the number and type of vehicles used;
information on the type of journey;
type of journey in accordance with the nomenclature in Annex IV.
National authorities must refrain from carrying out any formalities at frontiers between Member States.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULATIONS APPLACE INTO FORCE?
The regulations apply from 1 January 1 to 31 December 2011.
The first transmission cover the first quarter of 1999 and the second quarter of 2000.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
1.1.2011
-
Official Journal
Council Regulation (EU) No 550/2011
2.2.2012
3.3.2013
Regulations (EC, EC, EC and EC) No 652/2013
4.3-
Commission Regulation (EC), EC, Euratom
5.4.5.2014
6.6.2015
7.7.2016.
8.8.2016
9.9.10.2017
Commission Implementing Regulation (Euratom) No 752/2014
10.11.2018
11.12.2019
Commission Decision (EU, EC) 2020/852
12.12-
2020.1
Commission Delegated Regulation (Euroatom) 2021/856
13.11-
2021-
21.12
22.13.2022
23.23.2023.
Last updated: 22.07.2020



Summary 164:
Transmission and service of information and documents between EU countries (Regulation (EC) No 1348/2000 on the transmission and the service of documents between Member States (OJ L 347, 29.11.2000, pp. 1-2)
Transmission of information (EC, No 1349/2000)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation(EC, Euratom) No 1303/2002 establishing a European area for the transmission of information, documents and services of documents
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
   
 
It establishes a European Area for the Transmission and Service of Information and Documents (Euratom).
It aims to facilitate the exchange of information between the European Union (EU) Member States on matters such as:
trade in goods and services between the Member States;
transmission of documents;
communication and publication of information.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to:
information transmitted by the transmitting agency to the receiving agency;
documents transmitted to the sending agency.
The transmitting agency must ensure that:
the information transmitted is in a standard form;
the document is accompanied by a translation into a language provided for in the regulation’s annexes;
it has been transmitted in a language of the Member State in which it is addressed;
there is no reason to believe that the information or document has not been obtained through the competent authorities or bodies of that Member State addressed.
In exceptional cases, at the request of a transmitting agency, a request for service may be made to the competent receiving agency. The request must be made in the standard form in which the information is transmitted.
If a document has been refused to accept the document pursuant to paragraph 1, the service must be remedied through the service on the addressee in accordance with the provisions of this regulation.
When a document is refused to be accepted, it must be provided to the transmitting or receiving agency by the sender. The sending agency must inform the transmitting and receiving agencies by the swiftest possible means in order to secure the missing information or documents.
Information transmitted must be protected by:
a confidentiality clause;
a non-exhaustive list of the information to be protected;
protection of the identity of the sender and the recipient;
protecting the confidentiality of the documents and information to which it has been provided.
Reporting
Reporting must be carried out in a manner that is consistent with the rules laid down in the annexes to the regulation. The reporting must be done in a way that ensures the confidentiality and integrity of information transmitted and documents. It must be transmitted in such a way as to ensure that it does not disclose confidential information or information that is not necessary for the proper functioning of the internal market.
Report
The Commission has prepared a report on the application of the regulation and its subsequent amendments. The report concludes that the regulation has generally improved and expedited the transmission* and service* of information to and from Member States since its entry into force in 2001, but that nevertheless the implementation of certain provisions is not fully satisfactory.
FROM WHEN DOES THE REGULE APPLY?
It has applied since 1 January 2002.
BACKGROUND
  The regulation is part of a package of measures designed to modernise and modernise EU law in the field of trade and services.
For more information, see:
Trade and services (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Transmission agency: the body that transmits information to or receives documents from another Member State.
* Document: a document that has been sent to or received by a Member State to be served by another Member States’ authorities.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition on the market
Official Journal
Council Regulation (EC), Euratom
1.1.2002
-
OJ C 347, 28.12.2002, p. 1
RELATED ACTS
Commission Implementing Decision (EU, EC) 2015/852 of 25 November 2015 on the harmonisation and harmonisation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of Member States relating to trade in goods, services and services, and repealing Council Regulation (EURO) No 596/2004 (OCT) No 652/2004).
last update 04.02.2016



Summary 165:
EU rules on advanced therapy medicinal products (OTM products)
EU policies on advanced therapies
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 on the regulation of advanced therapy medicines
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It lays down EU rules on the marketing and authorisation of advanced therapies* for the treatment of diseases and dysfunctions of the human body.
It aims to improve the quality of life of patients and improve the safety and effectiveness of these products.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to all advanced therapies for diseases and disorders caused by the presence or absence of cells or tissues in the body. These include:
degenerative diseases, such as cancer;
cancer-related diseases, including inflammatory diseases, cardiovascular diseases, viral diseases, neurological disorders, viral infections and viral infections;
disease-related disorders, including viral infections, parasitic diseases, infectious diseases and viral diseases;
tuberculosis, tuberculosis-like diseases, viruses and parasitic diseases.
Manufacturing and marketing
Manufacturers must ensure that their products comply with the following requirements:
the products are manufactured and marketed in accordance with the EU’s national legislation on the manufacture and marketing of medicines;
they are accompanied by appropriate labelling, labelling and packaging;
the product design methods are described in a description of the physical characteristics and performance of the product and the product design.
The products must bear the following information on their packaging:
a description of their characteristics;
an indication of the active implantable medical device;
a product description of its characteristics and its design methods.
Labelling
The product must be accompanied by:
an explanation of the use of the device and its characteristics, if necessary with explanatory drawings and pictures;
information on the safety, efficacy and safety of the implantable device.
EU countries must ensure the labelling of the products and the package leaflet contains information on:
their safety and efficacy;
their duration of use;
any adverse events or reactions that may occur.
Evaluation procedure
The European Medicines Agency (EMA) must carry out a scientific evaluation of the medicinal product before authorising it to be marketed in the EU. It must:
assess the quality and non-clinical data submitted by small and medium-sized enterprises developing an advanced therapy product;
provide the Agency with all relevant quality and, where available, data required for scientific evaluation and certification;
certify that the product complies with the requirements laid down in Annex I to Directive 2001/83/EC on the manufacturing of medicinal products;
conduct a risk assessment and carry out an evaluation of its safety, effectiveness and safety profile.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
The Regulation has applied since 1 January 2005.
BACKGROUND
The EU is a world leader in the field of biomedicine and has adopted a number of laws and regulations to encourage the development and use of innovative technologies. This regulation aims to ensure that these products are safe and effective.
For more information, see:
‘Advanced therapy medicines’ on the European Commission's website.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EU) No 768/2004 of 21 December 2004 on the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the Authorisation of Advanced Therapy Medicines for the Treatment of Diseases and Dysfunctions (OJ L 183, 23.12.2004, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EC, No 768) have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
Commission Implementing Decision 2004/23/EC of 27 November 2004 establishing a European Committee for Advanced Therapies.
Council Implementing Regulation (EEC, Euratom) No 596/2004 establishing a Committee for the Scientific Evaluation and Certification of Medicinal Products for the Treating of Diseases, Diseases and Disfunctions and amending Council Implementing Directives 90/385/EC, 93/42/EEC and 2004/22/EC.
last update 04.01.2016



Summary 166:
EU type-approval system for motor vehicles and their trailers (EEC)
EU type–approval systems for motor vehicle and its trailers (EU)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 552/2013 on type-approval of motor vehicles
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out rules for the type-approved vehicles and trailers of the European Union (EU).
It aims to reduce air pollution by emissions from motor vehicles.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to:
vehicles with a reference mass not exceeding 2.5 tonnes;
motor vehicles with a power rating of at least 3.5 kW;
hybrid vehicles* with at least 2 different energy converters and two different energy storage systems (on vehicle) for mass exceeding 2 840 kg and which meet the conditions laid down in this regulation and its implementing measures.
It does not apply to vehicles with direct injection engines.
Manufacturers’ obligations
Vehicle manufacturers must:
ensure that their vehicles comply with the requirements of the regulation;
make available to the European Commission, the European Agency for Safety and Health at European level, technical information on their vehicles’ emission control systems;
provide the Commission with information on the vehicle’s technical characteristics, including the type of engine and the number and type of exhaust system.
The Commission must review the regulation in the light of technological progress and assess its effectiveness.
Access to information
EU countries must ensure that vehicle manufacturers submit to the Commission information on:
the type of vehicle;
the number of exhaust systems and the total number of components and components in the vehicle.
Vehicles must also be made available to independent operators and authorised dealers and must be accompanied by training material.
Emissions/access to information must be submitted in a consistent manner, initially in accordance with the technical requirements of OASIS format. The Commission must monitor the quality of the information submitted and ensure that it complies with the regulation.
In addition, vehicle manufacturers must provide the Commission and the European Parliament with technical information concerning:
roadworthiness of vehicles;
compulsory maintenance and repair of vehicle systems and components;
vehicle emissions and access to information;
access to vehicle repair and maintenance information.
National authorities must also ensure that vehicles are registered and registered in their respective EU countries.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULATING DIRECTIVE APPLY?

It applies from 2 January 2013. EU countries had to incorporate it into national law by 2 January 2014.
BACKGROUND
The EU has adopted a number of measures to tackle air pollution caused by motor vehicles, including:
measures to improve the safety of drivers and passengers;
measures against the harmful effects of climate change.
For more information, see:
‘Emissions’ (European Commission).
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EC), Euratom, 2.1.2013, pp. 1-5
Successive amendments to Regulation (E) No 1 have been incorporated into the original document. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
   
 
Directive (EU, Euratom) No 696/2004 of the Council of 11 December 2004 on type approval of motor cars and light commercial vehicles and amending Council Directive 70/156/EEC of 6 February 1970 on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the type approval (OJ L 191, 20.12.2004, p. 64).
See consolidated version.
last update 04.02.2016



Summary 167:
EU rules on the authorisation of food substances
EU rules governing the authorisations of foods
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 178/2002 establishing a Community list of authorised substances
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes a common procedure for the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) to authorise food substances.
It aims to ensure that the EU’s food safety rules are applied uniformly throughout the EU.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to all EU countries’ sectoral food laws. It does not apply to:
the food sector;
the agricultural sector; or
the aquaculture sector.
Authorisations
The European Commission publishes a list of the authorised substances in force in the EU, known as the ‘EU list’. The list is updated every 2 years.
The EU list is maintained by the Commission. It is updated by the EFSA, which publishes the list on its website.
EU countries must inform the European Commission of the names of the substances on the list and the reasons for their inclusion in the list. The Commission publishes the EU list on the basis of a risk assessment carried out in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 596/2013 on food safety.
Risk assessment
The Commission must carry out risk assessments every 3 years. The results of these assessments must be published in the Official Journal of the European Union (OJEU). The Commission must publish a report on the results of the risk assessment every 5 years. This report must be made available to the public and to the European Parliament, the European Council and the European Economic and Social Committee on Food Safety and Health.
FROM WHEN DOES IT APPLY?
The Regulation entered into force on 20 January 2009.
BACKGROUND
The EFSA is responsible for the safety of food and the protection of human health and the environment. Its role is to ensure a high level of protection of the health and safety of human life and health of consumers.
For more information, see:
Food safety: EU rules on authorised substances (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Authorised substance: a substance which is authorised to be used in the manufacture, transport or storage of foodstuffs.
ACT
Commission Regulation (Euratom) No 184/2008 of 20 January 2008 establishing a common list of substances authorised in the field of food.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Commission Implementing Regulation (EC).
-
OJ L 347 of 20.1.2009
RELATED ACTS
Commission Delegated Regulation (CFSP) No 696/2014 of 20 December 2014 on the establishment of a Community register of substances in use in the food sector (see summary).
Last updated: 20.02.2014



Summary 168:
EU rules on accreditation, market surveillance, controls of products from non-EU countries and the CE marking (until 31 December 2020)
EU rules in the field of accreditation and market surveillance: accreditation of conformity assessment bodies performing conformity assessment activities
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 596/2008 — accreditation requirements for conformity assessment* bodies
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes rules on the organisation and operation of the European Union (EU) accreditation* bodies* that perform conformity assessment (CE) activities.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to the following sectors: drug precursors, medical devices, medicinal products for human and veterinary use, motor vehicles and aviation.
It does not apply to:
medical devices;
motor vehicles;
personal protective equipment;
pharmaceutical products;
electrical products.
Objectives
The aim of the regulation is to ensure that EU countries’ national accreditation bodies:
ensure that products which are subject to CE conformity assessment have the necessary documentation and information to demonstrate that they meet the necessary requirements;
establish a system for the exchange of information on products presenting a risk;
monitor and exchange of test reports and certificates between national accreditations bodies;
assist the European Commission in its activities;
ensuring that the CE CE marking is affixed on products which present a risk.
The European Commission:
provides the Commission with information on the products and their conformity assessment results;
is assisted by the European Rapid Information System (ANNEXEX);
ensures that the Commission has access to the information it needs to carry out its tasks;
coordinates with EU countries and other EU countries on products presented as a risk to the EU’s internal market.
Rules on market surveillance
EU countries must cooperate, at national level, with national market surveillance authorities and exchange information with them relating to products which they suspect present a threat.
National authorities must:
assess whether a product presents a risk,
identify the risks,
monitor the results of testing carried out,
take provisional restrictive measures taken,
make contact with the economic operators concerned and
take the necessary samples of products to establish whether the product meets the necessary conditions for its use;
investigate and prosecute infringements of EU rules on CE marking;
take appropriate measures to prevent the use of products which do not meet the requirements of this regulation.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
The EU accreditation regulation has applied since 1 December 2008.
BACKGROUND
   
For more information, see:
European accreditation (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Conformity assessment body: a body that carries out conformity assessment tests on a product to assess whether it meets the essential requirements of EU law.
* CE marking: a CE marking affixed by the manufacturer or his authorised representative to a product which is intended to be used only for the purpose of ensuring that the product complies with EU legislation.
ACT
Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 550/2008 of 21 December 2008 laying down rules for the organisation, operation and recognition of the accreditation organisations of conformity assessments bodies performing CE assessment activities (OJ L 183, 21.12.2008, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments and corrections to Regulation (Euratom), Euratom have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 04.02.2020



Summary 169:
EU-Iceland agreement on the execution of arrest warrants for the arrest and extradition of suspects
EU–Iceland Agreement
SUMMARY OF:
Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, the Kingdom of Norway and the Republic of Iceland on the arrest warrant for the execution and subsequent extradition of persons suspected of serious crimes
Decision (EU) 2017/852 concluding the agreement between the EU and its member countries, the EU countries, Iceland and Norway
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE AGREEMENT AND OF THE DECISION?
The agreement aims to facilitate the execution, on behalf of the EU, of an arrest warrant issued by an EU country against a person suspected of committing a serious crime.
The decision to execute the warrant must be taken within 30 days of receiving the request. The decision may be taken no later than 30 days after receipt of the request, unless the request is accompanied by a request for the person’s surrender or subsequent extradition.
In the event of multiple requests, the decision must be made within 15 days of receipt of all the requests. It may be extended by a further 30 days if there are multiple requests or if there is a dispute between the issuing and executing countries.
It does not apply to:
the arrest warrant itself;
the execution of an extradition request; or the subsequent extradition request.
KEY POINTS
Arrest warrant
An arrest warrant:
is issued by the issuing country on the basis of a request from the country in which it was issued;
is valid for a period of 5 years;
it is valid for 5 years.
An executing the warrant;
may be executed by the country which issued it.
the executing country may refuse to execute it if it considers that the person is not a threat to public order or the security of the country concerned.
If the executing country considers that a person is a risk to the public order, it may refuse execution of the warrant. The executing country must inform the person and inform them of the reasons for its decision. The person may have the right to legal counsel.
When an executing country refuses to execute a warrant, the person may appeal against the decision.
A decision may also be refused if:
there are grounds for non-execution;
there is no reason to believe that the warrant is valid;
an executing country does not have jurisdiction over the case;
a person has not been informed of the reason for the decision;
they have not been given the opportunity to challenge the decision in court.
EU countries may decide to suspend or withdraw an execution of a warrant if they consider that it is not valid.
Extradition request
An extradition request may be sent to the country where the person has been arrested. It must be accompanied by:
a copy of the original arrest warrant,
a description of the nature and duration of the offence and the grounds for its execution;
information on the person concerned, including the nature of the crime and the circumstances in which the person was arrested;
any other relevant information requested by the requesting country.
Where the country that issued the warrant does not comply with the conditions laid down in the warrant, it must return the person to its country of origin.
Expiry of an execution warrant
The executing country has 30 days from the date on which it received the request to decide whether to execute or not to issue the warrant to the person who is the subject of the extradition request, including:
whether or not the warrant has been executed;
whether the person in question has been convicted of a crime punishable by imprisonment;
where the executing judicial authority has surrendered the person;
if the executing court has given its consent to the extradition;
when the executing judge has been appointed by a country which has surrendered a person.
FROM WHEN DO THE DECISIONS ENTER INTO FORCE?
   
The agreements entered into force on 1 January 2018.
BACKGROUND
 
  The EU is a party to the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court (ICC).
The EU is one of 3 contracting parties to the agreement. The other 2 are the EU Member States of the European Economic Area (EEA).
KEY TERMS
* Arrest warrant: a warrant issued to arrest a person for the purpose of preventing, investigating or prosecuting a criminal offence.
* Extradition: a request to extradite a person to another country for the purposes of preventing or prosecuting that offence. The term ‘extradition’ is used in the agreement to refer to the transfer of a person from one country to another.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Council Decision (EU, Euratom) 2017-852
1.1.2018
-
OJ L 136, 1.1-2.2018, pp. 1-2
RELATED ACTS
 



Summary 170:
Consumers’ rights on rail transport
Consumers' rights on railway transport
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 596/2006 — uniform rules for the carriage of passengers on rail passenger services
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
 
   
It sets out uniform rules on the carriage charge* and carriage charge*, as well as the information to be provided to passengers.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to:
all passenger services on the European Union’s (EU) railway network;
urban, suburban and regional passenger services.
It does not apply to the following:
the carriage of goods by road;
traffic management;
passenger information;
access to services;
ticketing information.
Passengers may submit a complaint to any railway undertaking involved.
Complaints must be made to the competent authorities of the EU country in which the railway service is operated.
The rules apply to all passengers, irrespective of whether they are:
traveling by road or by rail;
using public transport;
paying a carriage charge; or
paying for a ticket.
EU countries may grant exemptions from the application of the regulation to certain types of passenger services, such as:
railway passenger services operated by a private company;
railways operated by the European Commission;
busy-busy passenger services; and
the passenger information system.
In addition, the regulation provides for:
information to disabled and persons with reduced mobility;
travelers’ information on the conditions of carriage;
information on the charges;
the conditions under which the ticket is valid;
conditions for the refund of carriage charges.
Exemption from liability
The European Commission may grant an exemption from liability for loss or damage arising from the fact that the passenger does not conform to the formalities required by customs or other administrative authorities.
Liability of the carrier
The carrier is not liable to the passenger for loss, damage or loss arising from:
failure to comply with the conditions and limitations laid down in the regulation;
loss or damage resulting from the failure of the passenger to conform with the requirements of customs or administrative authorities;
non-compliance with the rules laid down by the Commission.
Where the carrier is liable, it may be brought against the passenger only subject to the conditions set out in these uniform rules.
Penalties for infringements of the rules are effective, proportionate and dissuasive. They must be effective and proportionate, and must not be dissuasive in the light of the seriousness of the infringements.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
It has applied since 1 January 2007. EU countries had to incorporate it into national law by 1 January 2008.
BACKGROUND
The EU has a high level of consumer protection in the field of transport. This regulation is part of a package of measures designed to improve the quality of transport services in the EU.
For more information, see:
‘Railway consumer protection’ on the Commission's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Carriage charge: a charge charged on the basis of the number of seats available on a train, the number or type of carriage, the distance between the carriage and the destination, the duration of the journey and the price of the ticket. The carriage charge is calculated according to the number and type of seat available on the train. It is calculated in accordance with the EU rules on carriage charge.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 550/2006 of 21 December 2006 on the application, on behalf of the European Community, of the uniform rules concerning the carriage charges and carriage charges applicable to passenger services (OJ L 304, 1.12.2006, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (Euratom) no 550/06 have been incorporated into the original document. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 14.02.2016



Summary 171:
Harmonised data on vocational education and training statistics
Harmonomically harmonised data in the field
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 852/2005 on harmonised European Union (EU) statistics on the quality of vocational education
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes common statistical standards that permit the production of harmonised EU-wide data for vocational education (VET) and training (EU-SILC) statistics.
It aims to improve the quality and reliability of these statistics, thus contributing to the implementation of the Lisbon strategy.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to all EU countries’ national authorities and the European Commission (Eurostat).
EU countries must collect and transmit data on:
the quality of VETs;
the number of students in each EU country;
participation in vocational education;
quality of training;
access to vocational education.
The data must be collected and transmitted to Eurostat by:
national authorities and Eurostat;
Eurostat; and
the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights and Citizenship.
Data and metadata
Data must be supplied annually, if not otherwise specified, within the deadlines agreed between Eurostat and the national authorities taking into account the latest agreements between the UIS, the OECD and the Commission.
They must be transmitted in accordance with the following rules:
data and metadata must be provided in the form set out in the annex to the regulation;
they must contain:
a description of the subject of the data;
a summary of the results of the survey;
data on the number and duration of students and the number of teachers and vocational education providers;
information on the types of courses offered and the duration of the courses;
annexes to the data collection and the transmission of data subject to statistical confidentiality.
National authorities must:
ensure that the data are collected in a language easily understood by the general public;
provide the Commission with a list of data sources;
use administrative data sources to reduce the burden on respondents;
assist Eurostat in the collection and processing of data and metadata;
make use of the information provided by national authorities, Eurostat, the United Nations Institute for Statistics (UNIS) and the OECD;
collect, analyse and transmit the data collected by Eurostat to the European Statistical Office of the European Communities (ESO).
Data collection
The European Commission must collect, analyse, process and transmit VET data in line with the requirements laid down in Annexes 1 and 2 of the regulation. It must also collect and analyse the data it receives from national authorities.
Reporting
The Commission must report to the Council every 3 years on the results obtained from the VET and on the progress made.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULATIONS APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 January 2006.
BACKGROUND
The Lisbon strategy is a key element in developing and promoting a skilled, trained and adaptable workforce. It is one of the pillars of the EU’s strategic objectives.
For more information, see:
Lifelong learning (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Vocational education: vocational training is a form of lifelong learning that is designed to develop and promote lifelong learning skills.
* VET: vocational education is a type of training that is aimed at lifelong learning.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (Euratom) No 802/2005/EC of 22 and 23 March 2005 on the harmonisation of European Union statistics concerning the quality, scope, reliability and availability of Vocational Education and Training statistics (recast) (Codified version) (OJ L 31, 23.3.2005, pp. 1-2)
Successive amendments to Council Regulation (EU)* No 802 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 14.02.2016



Summary 172:
EU energy statistics: renewable energy and energy from waste (REFERENCES
EU energy data
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 596/2008 — renewable energy statistics
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out the rules for the reporting of renewable energy (RE) statistics and final energy consumption statistics.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to the EU’s energy sector.
It covers:
energy production and consumption;
energy from waste;
renewable energy statistics and energy consumption.
EU countries must report to the European Commission every 2 years on the renewable energy they produce and the energy they consume, as well as on the total amount of renewable and energy-from-waste they generate.
The data must cover:
gross electricity and heat production;
gross energy consumption; and
total renewable energy production.
Data must be collected and transmitted to the Commission by:
the EU countries’ national authorities;
the European Atomic Energy Community (Euratom);
the EEA countries and the European Maritime and Fisheries Agency (EMSA).
The Commission must transmit the data to the EEA by 30 November of the year following the reported period. The data must be transmitted in accordance with the following deadlines:
1.
30 October of the reporting year.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
Repeal
Regulations (EU) 2021/2023 amending Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 605/2013 and (EU 2020/2024) amending the regulation.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMESSAGE APPLACE?
The regulations apply from 1 January 2021.
BACKGROUND
The EU has adopted a number of measures to improve the quality of EU energy statistics. These include:
EU-wide renewable energy targets (see summary);
EU rules on renewable energy efficiency;
EU standards on energy efficiency.
For more information, see:
‘EU renewable energy’ on the Euratom website.
* KEY TERMS
* Renewable energy: a renewable energy source derived from renewable resources such as biomass, biofuels, biomass, wood, paper, paper and paperboard, biomass and paper, and biomass from waste.
ACT
Commission Regulation (EC, EC) No 550/2008 of 30 November 2008 establishing a framework for the collection, transmission and dissemination of energy statistics (recast) (OJ L 183, 30.11.2008, pp. 1-8)
last update 14.02.2021



Summary 173:
Disabled passengers’ rights on the transport of persons with reduced mobility on the European Union’s public transport system
Disabled persons’ right on the transportation system
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 596/2004 on the rights of passengers on the carriage of persons in wheelchairs and mobility devices
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to ensure that passengers travelling on public transport have the same rights as other passengers.
It sets out rules on:
the carriage of passengers by road and by rail;
the provision of assistance to passengers;
access to services;
information on the conditions of the service.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to:
bus and coach passengers, irrespective of their physical or mental disability;
passengers on board buses and coaches, regardless of their mobility devices;
travelers on board trains and on board coaches.
Passengers have the following rights:
to be provided with information before and during the journey;
to receive assistance free of charge;
in the event of an accident arising out of the use of the bus or coach, the carrier must provide reasonable and proportionate assistance with regard to the passengers' immediate practical needs following the accident.
The legislation does not apply to passengers who are:
deafened or physically unable to hear or see;
visually impaired;
impaired or partially sighted;
disabled persons;
persons who cannot walk or use a wheelchairs or mobility devices.
those who are unable to use a wheelchair;
people who have reduced mobility.
EU countries must ensure that:
transport services are provided in a safe and operationally feasible manner;
there is no discrimination based on the disability of the person;
services are provided for in accordance with the rules of the European Commission;
all passengers are entitled to the same information as the general public, including:
information regarding the service;
an estimate of the estimated departure time;
a description of the number of seats available on the bus and coach;
any other information that may be necessary for the safety and operation of the services.
In addition, EU countries must:
ensure that the information provided by the carrier is:
informal;
clear and understandable;
accessible;
free of charge.
Directive (EU) 2019/849 on the accessibility of services for persons with disabilities (see summary)
The directive repeals Directive 2004/36/EC and its subsequent amendments.
FROM WHEN DOES IT APPLY?
  The regulation applies from 1 January 2005. EU countries had to incorporate it into national law by 1 January 2006.
BACKGROUND
   
 
For more information, see:
‘Access to transport’ (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Wheelchair passenger: a person who is physically or mentally disabled and has reduced mobility and who is dependent on a mobility device.
* Train passenger: any person who uses a wheelchair or mobility device to travel by road or by train.
MAIN DOCUMENT
 			
	
Commission Implementing Decision 2004/96/EC of 21 December 2004 on the right of passengers to travel on the road and on the coach of the Member States and repealing Directive 2003/37/EC.
Successive amendments to Regulation (EC), as amended by Directive 2014/13/EU, have been incorporated into the original document. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 04.02.2021



Summary 174:
EU aquaculture statistics
EU aquaiculture statistics
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 788/96 — EU aqua-fishery statistics
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out rules for the collection and transmission of EU aquaquaculture data to the European Union (EU).
It aims to improve the quality of the EU’s fisheries statistics.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to:
the production of fish and molluscs in freshwater and saltwater on EU Member States’ territory;
the activities of hatcheries and nurseries;
production of aquatic animals in nurseries.
It does not apply to the production of live fish and crustaceans.
The purpose of the regulation is to provide the European Commission with reliable, comparable, comparable and comparable data on the production by species of fish, mollusk species and aquatic animals for fishery statistics purposes.
EU Member States must:
identify the number of species and quantities of fish they produce;
provide a description of the methods and methods of production;
report to the Commission on the data they have collected and the results they have provided.
Reporting
The Commission must publish a report on the results of the reporting every 3 years.
Each Member State must submit a report to the EU Parliament, the Council and the European Economic and Social Committee on the quality and quantity of the data it has collected. The report must include:
a description of aquacultural activities;
an estimate of the total production; and
a list of the species and the quantities of species produced.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULE APPLACE IN FORCE?
 
   
It has applied since 1 January 2008.
BACKGROUND
The EU has adopted a common fisheries policy for aquiculture.
For more information, see:
‘Aquaculture’ on the Commission's website.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EU) No 768/96/2008 of 21 December 2008 on the collection, transmission and dissemination of Community statistics relating to aqua‐fishing activities conducted in the Member States
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force
Deadline for transposition into the Member State
Official Journal
Council Decision 2008/852/EC
1.1.2008
-
OJ L 347 of 21.12.2008, pp. 1-3
RELATED DOCUMENTS
Commission Implementing Decision (EU, Euratom) 2015/849 of 27 November 2015 on the application of Regulation (EC, Euram) No 852/2008 on Community statistics concerning aqua‑fishing-related activities in the context of the Common Fisheries Policy (OJ C 202 of 27.11.2015, p. 1)
last update 04.01.2016



Summary 175:
Convention on the conservation and management of fishery resources in the North-East Atlantic Fisheries Commission (NEEFCC)
Convention upon the conclusion of the Convention on the Conservation and Management of Fishery Resources
SUMMARY OF:
Delegated act (EU) 2017/852 on the implementation of Articles 24 and 25 of the NEEFFC Convention
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DECISION AND THE REGULATION?
The decision aims to establish a framework for multilateral cooperation between the European Community (now the EU) and its Member States to ensure the conservation, management and sustainable use of fisheries in the north-east Atlantic fisheries area defined by the Convention (the Convention Area).
KEY POINTS
The convention provides for the establishment of a regulatory area to be managed by the European Union (EU).
The regulation sets out detailed rules for the notification and authorisation of the fishery resource to be notified, procedures for prior notification of entry into port and for the cancellation of authorisations, as well as for the authorisation to land or tranship.
In addition, the regulation establishes contact points for receiving notifications and issuing authorisations in accordance with the convention’s rules.
National authorities must notify the Commission and the European Economic and Social Committee (EASC) of the EU Member States of the lists of the fishing resources to which the regulation applies. These must be available 24 hours a day.
Member States must report to the Commission or the body designated by it any infringements of the conservation or management measures adopted by NEAFCFFC. These infringements must be reported to the following an inspection. The Commission or body must promptly inform the body of the infringements and follow-up of infringements.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS DECISION APPLY?
It has applied since 1 January 2017.
BACKGROUND
The Convention provides for an appropriate framework to ensure multilateral conservation and managed fisheries.
The EU is a contracting party to the convention.
For more information, see:
‘Convention Area’ on the European Commission's website.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Decision No 852/2016/EU of 21 December 2016 on the application of Articles 25 and 24 of the convention relating to the notification, authorisation and conservation measures adopted in the Convention Area (OJ L 347, 28.12.2016, pp. 1-8)
RELATED DOCUMENTS
Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2017-852 of 27 November 2017 on the enforcement of the rules of the regulation relating to fishery management in the convention area and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 596/2006 (OJC) No 652/2006.
Regulation (EC), Euratom No 653/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2006 on the protection of the marine environment in the area defined in Article 25 of Article 24 and 26 of the Convention Area (Codified version).
last update 04.01.2021



Summary 176:
EU Ecolabel — rules on the labelling of foodstuffs
European Ecolabelling: rules for the use of organic products
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 1980/2000 on the use, labelling and certification of food and feed products
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes a European Union (EU) ecolabel (ecolabel) scheme.
It aims to ensure that products labelled with an organic label are sold in the EU without any confusion for consumers.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to all food and food-related products, including food, feed and feed additives.
Products certified as organic would be eligible for award of the EU EColabel, as long as they comply with the relevant product group criteria and do not present a risk to human health or the environment.
Eligible products
Products that are not organic must be labelled as such, unless they meet the following criteria:
they do not contain substances that are harmful to human or animal health or to the environment;
they are not intended for human consumption.
Organic products must bear the following information:
the name of the producer;
the product’s provenance;
a description of the products’ composition and characteristics;
an indication of the quality of the product;
their presence or absence in the food chain.
The EU EcolABelling Board (EUEB) is the body responsible for administering the scheme. It is chaired by the European Commission and is composed of representatives of the Member States and the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA).
The European Commission is assisted by a Committee.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
   
The Regulation entered into force on 1 July 2000.
BACKGROUND
 
 Â  Â
 			
For more information, see:
‘Ecolabel’ (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Organic products: products that are produced from organic ingredients and which are certified as such.
* Food and feed additive: products which are intended to be used as additives or preservatives in food or feed, and which contain substances or ingredients that are intended for use as preservatives.
MAIN DOCUMENT
 ъ  	
Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 80/2000 of 27 June 2000 on the application, labels and certification schemes of the European Union and repealing Council Regulation (EEC, EC, EC) No 652/93
Successive amendments and corrections to Regulation (EU), Euratom and Euratom have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
                                   
                                   
  The European Commission adopted Regulation (EFSP) No 596/2013 on the European Ecolabselling Board.
  It sets out the rules and procedures for the establishment of the board and for the management of the ecolabels.
Regulations (EC and Euram) No 496/2014 and (EUEC) 2015/849 on the EU ecolabsels (see summary).
Commission Implementing Decision 2014/852/EU establishes a common register of products and services covered by the eColabelling scheme. The Commission is responsible for maintaining and updating the register and for ensuring that it is up-to-date. It also ensures that the register is updated regularly.
Directive 2014/973/EU on the harmonisation and harmonisation of labelling requirements for products and food additives (see consolidated version) (see amending act(s) below).
last update 14.02.2016



Summary 177:
Supplementary protection certificate for medicinal products
Supplemental protection certificate
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006 — supplementary protection certificate relating to a medicinal product for which marketing authorisation has been granted
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes a system for the granting of supplementary protection certificates (SPCs) to the holder of a national or European patent relating to medicinal products.
It codifies and repeals Regulation (EU) No 2001/83/EC (see summary).
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to:
any medicinal product protected by a valid basic patent and for which the first authorisation to place it on the market as a pharmaceutical product was obtained in Malta prior to 1 May 2004;
any pharmaceutical product which has been placed on the EU market since 1 July 2002 and which was granted a certificate.
The SPCs are valid for 5 years from the date on which they are granted. The duration of the certificate may not exceed 5 years.
Application for a certificate
An application for a SPC must be submitted by the holder to the competent authority of the EU country in which it is issued. The application must include:
the name and address of the holder;
the nature and nature of the product covered by the SPC;
a description of the medicinal product;
an indication of the annual fee to be paid for the extension of the duration.
If an application for an extended duration is pending, the applicant must include the particulars referred to in Article 7(3 of the regulation.
An extension of a certificate may be made within 6 months of the expiry of the original SPC.
A certificate may expire at the end of the 5-year period if the holder surrenders it or if it is not paid in time.
Expiry
The certificate may lapse:
at the end the period provided for in Article 13;
if the certificate holder gives up the certificate or if the product no longer meets the conditions for its use; or
if it is withdrawn from the market following withdrawal of the appropriate authorisation or authorisations.
Invalidity of the validity
The holder may submit an application to the body responsible under national law for the revocation of the corresponding basic patent.
References
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 101/2006
1.1.2006
-
OJ L 136 of 1.1.2006
RELATED ACTS
Council Directive 2001/82/EC of 27 November 2001 on the protection of medicinal products against counterfeiting (OJ C 202, 28.12.2001, pp. 1-8)
last update 04.02.2016



Summary 178:
Convention on jurisdiction in civil and commercial matters in the European Union (EU) (Lugano Convention)
Convention of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2000 on jurisdiction and enforcement in civil matters in civil, commercial and commercial disputes
SUMMARY OF:
Conventions on jurisdiction, enforcement and enforcement of judgments in civil or commercial matters
Decision (EC) No 552/2004 on the conclusion of the Convention on jurisdiction applicable to nationals of the Member States of the Community of the Swiss Confederation (Lagano Convention).
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE CONVENTION AND THE DECISION?
The convention establishes a legal framework for the application of the rules of law applicable to EU nationals in respect of the jurisdiction of the courts and tribunals of the contracting parties.
The decision concludes the convention on behalf of the EU.
KEY POINTS
The parties to the convention are:
non-EU nationals who are not nationals of a Member State bound by the Convention in which they are domiciled;
citizens of the States bound by this convention who are governed by the rules applicable to the nationals of that State.
In civil matters, the convention applies to the following:
the judgment of the court or tribunal in which the proceedings are held;
the decision of the Court of Justice of the Federal Republic of Switzerland;
a judgment issued by a court in the territory of an EU country;
an agreement between the parties to a commercial or commercial dispute.
Where the parties have not been able to present their case before a court, the judgment is enforceable only in the Member State in which has jurisdiction over the case, i.e. the country in which it was entered.
A party may not contest the jurisdiction or enforcement of a judgment.
If the parties do not appear before an appellate court in proceedings concerning an appeal brought by the applicant, they may not enforce the judgment. This rule does not apply where appearance was entered to contest jurisdiction, or where another court has exclusive jurisdiction by virtue of Article 22.3 of the convention.
Annexes V and VI to the Convention provide for translations into their languages. The annexes also provide for the exchange of information on judgments and court settlements.
When enforcement is sought, the parties must comply with the convention’s rules on enforcement and enforceability. The parties must:
be informed of the nature of the judgment;
notify the court which delivered the judgment/approved the court settlement;
be accompanied by a translation into English and French.
Appeals must be brought before the courts of the country where the judgment or court settlement was delivered;
appear before the court of jurisdiction in the case of an appeal;
have the right to appeal against the judgment and/or court settlement.
Exemption from enforcement
The judgment and court settlement may not be enforced in cases where the parties are not the same country.
Jurisdiction
Where enforcement is not applicable, the party against whom enforcement is requested is not a national of the party to which enforcement is being sought.
Enforcement may be granted only where the party is a resident of the State where enforcement is to be carried out. The law of the state in which enforcement takes place is applicable. If enforcement is carried out, the law of that state is applicable to all the parties, including the parties who are the subject of enforcement proceedings.
Implementation
The contracting parties must apply the rules laid down in Annexes V through VI and VIII to this convention in order to:
ensure that judgments and decisions are enforced in accordance with the provisions of this convention;
apply the rules set out in the annexes;
take the necessary measures to ensure that enforcement is effective and enforceable;
implement the rules and procedures laid down by the convention in line with its annexes.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
The Convention entered into force on 1 July 2004.
BACKGROUND
   
 
The Lugano Convention is one of a number of legal instruments designed to protect the rights and interests of EU citizens against fraud and abuse of power.
For more information, see:
‘Judges’ on the European Commission's website.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Decision 2004/552/EC of 27 February 2004 concerning the conclusion in favour of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland (OJ L 347, 28.3.2004, pp. 1-8)
Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 696/2004 of 27 June 2004 on the application by the Member states of the Treaty on the Functioning of the Union of the Schengen Economic Area of the International Convention on Jurisdiction and Enforcement of Judgments in Civil and Commercial Matters (Luxembourg Convention) and repealing Protocol 2 of Protocol 2.1.2004.
Successive amendments to the Treaty have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version



