Summary 90:
 Internal Market Information System (IMI)
SUMMARY
WHAT DOES THIS REGULATION DO?
It establishes the Internal Market Information System (IMI) which facilitates administrative cooperation between EU countries and between EU countries and the European Commission.
It sets out the rules for the use of IMI for administrative cooperation.
KEY POINTS
What is the IMI?
The IMI is an electronic tool provided by the Commission to facilitate administrative cooperation between EU countries and between EU countries and the Commission.
It is used for the implementation of EU legislation in the field of the internal market, within the meaning of Article 26(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU), which provide for administrative cooperation, including the exchange of personal data, between EU countries or between EU countries and the Commission.
The IMI is used for administrative cooperation between competent authorities of the EU countries and between competent authorities of the EU countries and the Commission necessary for the implementation of Union acts in the field of the internal market, within the meaning of Article 26(2) of the TFEU, which provide for administrative cooperation, including the exchange of personal data, between EU countries or between EU countries and the Commission.
The IMI is also used for the implementation of Union acts which provide for administrative cooperation between competent authorities of the EU countries and between competent authorities of the EU countries and the Commission necessary for the implementation of Union acts in the field of the internal market, within the meaning of Article 26(2) of the TFEU, which provide for administrative cooperation, including the exchange of personal data, between EU countries or between EU countries and the Commission.
The IMI is used for the implementation of Union acts which provide for administrative cooperation between competent authorities of the EU countries and between competent authorities of the EU countries and the Commission necessary for the implementation of Union acts in the field of the internal market, within the meaning of Article 26(2) of the TFEU, which provide for administrative cooperation, including the exchange of personal data, between EU countries or between EU countries and the Commission.
The IMI is used for the implementation of Union acts which provide for administrative cooperation between competent authorities of the EU countries and between competent authorities of the EU countries and the Commission necessary for the implementation of Union acts in the field of the internal market, within the meaning of Article 26(2) of the TFEU, which provide for administrative cooperation, including the exchange of personal data, between EU countries or between EU countries and the Commission.
The IMI is used for the implementation of Union acts which provide for administrative cooperation between competent authorities of the EU countries and between competent authorities of the EU countries and the Commission necessary for the implementation of Union acts in the field of the internal market, within the meaning of Article 26(2) of the TFEU, which provide for administrative cooperation, including the exchange of personal data, between EU countries or between EU countries and the Commission.
The IMI is used for the implementation of Union acts which provide for administrative cooperation between competent authorities of the EU countries and between competent authorities of the EU countries and the Commission necessary for the implementation of Union acts in the field of the internal market, within the meaning of Article 26(2) of the TFEU, which provide for administrative cooperation, including the exchange of personal data, between EU countries or between EU countries and the Commission.
The IMI is used for the implementation of Union acts which provide for administrative cooperation between competent authorities of the EU countries and between competent authorities of the EU countries and the Commission necessary for the implementation of Union acts in the field of the internal market, within the meaning of Article 26(2) of the TFEU, which provide for administrative cooperation, including the exchange of personal data, between EU countries or between EU countries and the Commission.
The IMI is used for the implementation of Union acts which provide for administrative cooperation between competent authorities of the EU countries and between competent authorities of the EU countries and the Commission necessary for the implementation of Union acts in the field of the internal market, within the meaning of Article 26(2) of the TFEU, which provide for administrative cooperation, including the exchange of personal data, between EU countries or between EU countries and the Commission.
The IMI is used for the implementation of Union acts which provide for administrative cooperation between competent authorities of the EU countries and between competent authorities of the EU countries and the Commission necessary for the implementation of Union acts in the field of the internal market, within the meaning of Article 26(2) of the TFEU, which provide for administrative cooperation, including the exchange of personal data, between EU countries or between EU countries and the Commission.
The IMI is used for the implementation of Union acts which provide for administrative cooperation between competent authorities of the EU countries and between competent authorities of the EU countries and the Commission necessary for the implementation of Union acts in the field of the internal market, within the meaning of Article 26(2) of the TFEU, which provide for administrative cooperation, including the exchange of personal data, between EU countries or between EU countries and the Commission.
The IMI is used for the implementation of Union acts which provide for administrative cooperation between competent authorities of the EU countries and between competent authorities of the EU countries and the Commission necessary for the implementation of Union acts in the field of the internal market, within the meaning of Article 26(2) of the TFEU, which provide for administrative cooperation, including the exchange of personal data, between EU countries or between EU countries and the Commission.
The IMI is used for the implementation of Union acts which provide for administrative cooperation between competent authorities of the EU countries and between competent authorities of the EU countries and the Commission necessary for the implementation of Union acts in the field of the internal market, within the meaning of Article 26(2) of the TFEU, which provide for administrative cooperation, including the exchange of personal data, between EU countries or between EU countries and the Commission.
The IMI is used for the implementation of Union acts which provide for administrative cooperation between competent authorities of the EU countries and between competent authorities of the EU countries and the Commission necessary for the implementation of Union acts in the field of the internal market, within the meaning of Article 26(2) of the TFEU, which provide for administrative cooperation, including the exchange of personal data, between EU countries or between EU countries and the Commission.
The IMI is used for the implementation of Union acts which provide for administrative cooperation between competent authorities of the EU countries and between competent authorities of the EU countries and the Commission necessary for the implementation of Union acts in the field of the internal market, within the meaning of Article 26(2) of the TFEU, which provide for administrative cooperation, including the exchange of personal data, between EU countries or between EU countries and the Commission.
The IMI is used for the implementation of Union acts which provide for administrative cooperation between competent authorities of the EU countries and between competent authorities of the EU countries and the Commission necessary for the implementation of Union acts in the field of the internal market, within the meaning of Article 26(2) of the TFEU, which provide for administrative cooperation, including the exchange of personal data, between EU countries or between EU countries and the Commission.
The IMI is used for the implementation of Union



Summary 91:
 EU fishing measures in the Mediterranean and Black Seas
EU fishing measures in the Mediterranean and Black Seas
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 1343/2011 on certain provisions for fishing in the GFCM (General Fisheries Commission for the Mediterranean) Agreement area and amending Council Regulation (EC) No 1967/2006
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out the rules for the application by the EU of conservation, management, exploitation, monitoring, marketing and enforcement measures for fishery and aquaculture products established by the General Fisheries Commission for the Mediterranean (GFCM).
It replaces Regulation (EC) No 1967/2006, which was repealed by Regulation (EU) No 1343/2011.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to all commercial fishing and aquaculture activities conducted by EU fishing vessels and nationals of EU Member States in the GFCM Agreement area.
By way of derogation from the regulation, it does not apply to fishing operations conducted solely for the purpose of scientific investigations which are carried out with the permission and under the authority of the Member State whose flag the vessel is flying and of which the Commission and the Member States in whose waters the research is carried out have been informed in advance.
The regulation defines the GFCM Agreement area as the Mediterranean and the Black Sea and connecting waters, as described in the GFCM Agreement.
It sets out a number of technical measures:
Fisheries restricted areas
In the eastern Gulf of Lions, fishing effort of vessels using towed nets, bottom- and mid-water longlines and bottom-set nets in the fisheries restricted area is not to exceed the level of fishing effort applied in 2008 by each Member State in that area.
Before 1 February 2012, Member States are to submit to the Commission in electronic format a list of vessels flying their flag that had a track record of fishing during the year 2008 in the area referred to in Article 4 and in GFCM Geographical Sub-Area 7 as defined in Annex I. The list is to contain the name of the vessel, its EU Fleet Register number, the period for which the vessel was authorised to fish in the area referred to in Article 4 and the number of days spent by each vessel in the year 2008 in Geographical Sub-Area 7 and more specifically in the area referred to in Article 4.
Vessels authorised to fish in the area referred to in Article 4 are issued with a fishing authorisation by their Member State in accordance with Article 7 of Regulation (EC) No 1224/2009. Fishing vessels which do not have records of fishing within the area referred to in Article 4 prior to 31 December 2008 shall not be authorised to start fishing therein.
Member States are to ensure that the area referred to in Article 4 is protected from the impact of any other human activity jeopardising the conservation of the features that characterise that area as an area of spawners’ aggregation.
Fishing effort
For demersal stocks, the fishing effort of vessels using towed dredges and bottom trawl nets in the following areas is prohibited:
the ‘Lophelia reef off Capo Santa Maria di Leuca’ (deep-sea fisheries restricted area);
the ‘The Nile delta area cold hydrocarbon seeps’ (deep-sea fisheries restricted area);
the ‘The Eratosthenes Seamount’ (deep-sea fisheries restricted area).
Member States are to ensure that their competent authorities are called upon to protect the deep-sea sensitive habitats in the areas referred to in Article 10 from, in particular, the impact of any other activity jeopardising the conservation of the features that characterise those habitats.
Closed season for the dolphinfish fisheries using fish aggregating devices
The common dolphinfish (Coryphaena hippurus) fisheries using fish aggregating devices (FADs) are prohibited from 1 January to 14 August of each year.
By way of derogation from the above, if a Member State can demonstrate that, due to bad weather, the fishing vessels flying its flag were unable to make use of their normal fishing days, that Member State may carry over days lost by its vessels in FAD fisheries until 31 January of the following year. In that case, before the end of the year Member States are to submit to the Commission an application in respect of the number of days to be carried over.
The application is to contain the following information:
a report containing the details of the cessation of fishing activities in question, including appropriate supporting meteorological information;
the name of the vessel and its EU Fleet Register number.
The Commission is to decide on applications of the kind referred to in paragraph 2 within 6 weeks from the date of receipt of an application and is to inform the Member State in writing of that decision.
The Commission is to inform the Executive Secretary of the GFCM of decisions taken pursuant to paragraph 5. Before 1 November of each year, Member States are to send to the Commission a report on the carrying over of days lost in the previous year as referred to in paragraph 2.
The Commission may adopt implementing acts as regards detailed rules for the format and transmission of the applications referred to in paragraph 4 and of the report on such carrying over referred to in paragraph 6. Those implementing acts are to be adopted in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 25(2).
Fishing vessels authorised to participate in the common dolphinfish fishery are to be granted a fishing authorisation in accordance with Article 7 of Regulation (EC) No 1224/2009 and are to be included in a list containing the name of the vessel and its EU Fleet Register number, which the Member State concerned is to provide to the Commission. Vessels of an overall length of less than 10 metres are to be required to have a fishing authorisation.
Member States are to set up an appropriate system of collection and treatment of fisheries catch and fishing effort data.
Member States are to report to the Commission by 15 January of each year the number of vessels involved in the fishery, as well as the total landings and transhipments of common dolphinfish carried out in the previous year by the fishing vessels flying their flag in each Geographical Sub-Area of the GFCM Agreement area as set out in Annex I.
Fishing gear
The minimum mesh size for nets used for trawling activities exploiting demersal stocks in the Black Sea is 40 mm. Panels of netting smaller than 40 mm mesh size opening are not to be used or kept on board.
Before 1 February 2012, the net referred to in the above is to be replaced by a square-meshed net of 40 mm at the cod-end or, at the duly justified request of the ship-owner, by a diamond meshed net of 50 mm with an acknowledged size selectivity equivalent to or higher than that of square-meshed nets of 40 mm at the cod-end.
Member States whose fishing vessels conduct trawling activities exploiting demersal stocks in the Black Sea are to submit to the Commission, for the first time not later than 16 February 2012 and subsequently every 6 months, the list of



Summary 92:




Summary 93:
 
Intellectual property rights enforcement
Intellectual property rights enforcement
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 386/2012 on entrusting the Office for Harmonization in the Internal Market (Trade Marks and Designs) with tasks related to the enforcement of intellectual property rights
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
              
It entrusts the Office for Harmonization in the Internal Market (OHIM) with tasks aimed at facilitating and supporting the activities of national authorities, the private sector and the European Union (EU) institutions in the fight against infringements of the intellectual property rights covered by Directive 2004/48/EC.
The tasks and activities of the OHIM under this Regulation do not extend to participation in individual operations or investigations carried out by the competent authorities.
KEY POINTS
WHAT DOES THE REGULATION PROVIDE FOR?
The Office for Harmonization in the Internal Market (OHIM) shall have the following tasks:
improving understanding of the value of intellectual property;
improving understanding of the scope and impact of infringements of intellectual property rights;
enhancing knowledge of best public and private sector practices to protect intellectual property rights;
assisting in raising citizens’ awareness of the impact of infringements of intellectual property rights;
enhancing the expertise of persons involved in the enforcement of intellectual property rights;
enhancing knowledge of technical tools to prevent and tackle infringements of intellectual property rights, including tracking and tracing systems which help to distinguish genuine products from counterfeit ones;
providing mechanisms which help to improve the online exchange, between Member States’ authorities working in the field of intellectual property rights, of information relating to the enforcement of such rights, and fostering cooperation with and between those authorities;
working, in consultation with Member States, to foster international cooperation with intellectual property offices in third countries so as to build strategies and develop techniques, skills and tools for the enforcement of intellectual property rights.
The tasks set out in the first paragraph shall be carried out by the OHIM in accordance with the work programme adopted pursuant to Article 7 of the Regulation.
The tasks and activities of the OHIM under this Regulation shall comply with existing provisions of EU law on data protection.
The tasks of the OHIM shall be carried out by making use of its own budgetary means.
The OHIM shall at least once per year invite to meetings of the Observatory representatives from public administrations, bodies and organisations in the Member States dealing with intellectual property rights and representatives from the private sector, for the purpose of their participation in the OHIM’s work under this Regulation.
Private-sector representatives invited to meetings of the Observatory shall include a broad, representative and balanced range of EU and national bodies representing the different economic sectors, including the creative industries, most concerned by or most experienced in the fight against infringements of intellectual property rights.
Consumer organisations, small and medium-sized enterprises, authors and other creators shall be properly represented.
The OHIM shall invite each Member State to send at least one representative from its public administration to meetings of the Observatory. In that context, Member States shall ensure continuity in the Observatory’s work.
The meetings may be complemented by working groups within the Observatory made up of representatives from Member States and representatives from the private sector.
The names of the representatives attending, the agenda and the minutes of the meetings shall be published on the OHIM’s website.
As appropriate, in accordance with national law, including the law governing the processing of personal data, Member States shall, at the request of the OHIM or on their own initiative:
inform the OHIM of their overall policies and strategies on the enforcement of intellectual property rights and any changes thereto;
provide available statistical data on infringements of intellectual property rights;
inform the OHIM of important case-law.
Without prejudice to the law governing the processing of personal data and to the protection of confidential information, private-sector representatives meeting as the Observatory shall, when possible, at the request of the OHIM:
inform the OHIM of policies and strategies in their field of activity on the enforcement of intellectual property rights and any changes thereto;
provide statistical data on infringements of intellectual property rights in their field of activity.
The relevant provisions of Title XII of Regulation (EC) No 207/2009 shall apply to the carrying-out of the tasks and activities provided for under this Regulation.
Using the powers conferred by Article 124 of Regulation (EC) No 207/2009, the President of the OHIM shall adopt the internal administrative instructions and shall publish the notices that are necessary for the fulfilment of all the tasks entrusted to the OHIM by this Regulation.
The OHIM shall draw up an annual work programme that appropriately prioritises the activities under this Regulation and for the meetings of the Observatory, in line with the EU’s policies and priorities in the field of protection of intellectual property rights and in cooperation with the representatives referred to in point (a) of Article 4(5).
The work programme shall be submitted to the OHIM’s Administrative Board for information.
The management report provided for in point (d) of Article 124(2) of Regulation (EC) No 207/2009 shall contain at least the following information concerning the OHIM’s tasks and activities under this Regulation:
a review of the main activities carried out during the preceding calendar year;
the results achieved during the preceding calendar year, accompanied, where appropriate, by sectoral reports analysing the situation in the different industry and product sectors;
an overall assessment of the fulfilment of the OHIM’s tasks as provided for in this Regulation and in the work programme drawn up in accordance with paragraph 1;
an overview of the activities that the OHIM intends to undertake in the future;
observations on the enforcement of intellectual property rights and potential future policies and strategies, including on how to enhance effective cooperation with and between Member States;
an overall assessment of the proper representation in the Observatory of all the actors mentioned in Article 4(2).
Before submitting the management report to the European Parliament, the Commission and the Administrative Board, the President of the OHIM shall consult the representatives referred to in point (a) of Article 4(5) on the relevant parts of the report.
The Commission shall adopt a report evaluating the application of this Regulation by 6 June 2017.
The evaluation report shall assess the operation of this Regulation, in particular as regards its impact on the enforcement of intellectual property rights in the internal market.
The Commission shall, when preparing the evaluation report, consult the OHIM, the Member States and the representatives meeting as the Observatory on the issues referred to in paragraph 2.
FROM WHEN DOES THE REGULATION APPLY?
              
It applies from 16 June 2012.
REFERENCES
              
Regulation (EU) No 386/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 19 April 2012 on entrusting the Office for Harmonization in the Internal Market (Trade Marks and Designs) with tasks related to the enforcement of intellectual property rights, including the assembling of public and private-sector representatives as a European Observatory on Infringements of Intellectual Property Rights (OJ L 129, 16.5.2012, pp. 1-7)
RELATED DOCUMENTS
              
Communication from the Commission to the European Parliament, the Council and the European Economic and Social Committee – The European Observatory on Infringements of Intellectual Property Rights (OJ C 68, 16.3.2012,



Summary 94:
 Regulation (EU) No 654/2014 — enforcement of international trade rules
SUMMARY
SUMMARY
The EU has concluded many international trade agreements. The aim of Regulation (EU) No 654/2014 is to ensure that it can enforce its rights under these agreements when necessary.
WHAT DOES THIS REGULATION DO?
It lays down rules and procedures to ensure an effective and timely exercise of the EU’s rights to suspend or withdraw concessions or other obligations under international trade agreements, with the intention of:
responding to breaches by third countries of international trade rules which affect the EU’s interests, with a view to seeking a satisfactory solution that restores benefits for the EU’s economic operators;
rebalancing concessions or other obligations in the trade relations with third countries, when the treatment accorded to goods from the EU is altered in a way that affects the EU’s interests.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies in the following circumstances:
following the adjudication of trade disputes under the WTO Understanding on Rules and Procedures Governing the Settlement of Disputes (WTO Dispute Settlement Understanding), when the EU has been authorised to suspend concessions or other obligations under the multilateral and plurilateral agreements covered by the WTO Dispute Settlement Understanding;
following the adjudication of trade disputes under other international trade agreements, including regional or bilateral agreements, when the EU has the right to suspend concessions or other obligations under such agreements;
for the rebalancing of concessions or other obligations, to which the application of a safeguard measure by a third country may give right pursuant to Article 8 of the WTO Agreement on Safegards, or to the provisions on safeguards included in other international trade agreements, including regional or bilateral agreements;
in cases of modification of concessions by a WTO member under Article XXVIII of the GATT 1994, where no compensatory adjustments have been agreed.
The regulation sets out the conditions for the adoption of implementing acts determining the appropriate commercial policy measures. These include the following:
where concessions or other obligations are suspended following the adjudication of a trade dispute under the WTO Dispute Settlement Understanding, their level shall not exceed the level authorised by the WTO Dispute Settlement Body;
where concessions or other obligations are suspended following the discharge of an international dispute settlement procedure under other international trade agreements, including regional or bilateral agreements, their level shall not exceed the level of nullification or impairment as a result of the third country measure concerned, as determined by the Commission or through recourse to arbitration, as the case may be;
in the case of rebalancing of concessions or other obligations under provisions on safeguards in international trade agreements, the EU’s action shall be substantially equivalent to the level of concessions or other obligations affected by the safeguard measure, in accordance with the conditions of the WTO Agreement on Safegards or of the provisions on safeguards in other international trade agreements, including regional or bilateral agreements, under which the safeguard measure is applied;
where concessions are withdrawn in the trade with a third country in connection with Article XXVIII of the GATT 1994 and the related Understanding, they shall be substantially equivalent to the concessions modified or withdrawn by that third country, in accordance with the terms established in Article XXVIII of the GATT 1994 and the related Understanding.
Commercial policy measures may consist of:
the suspension of tariff concessions and the imposition of new or increased customs duties, including the re-establishment of customs duties at the most favoured nation level or the imposition of customs duties beyond the most favoured nation level, or the introduction of any additional charge on imports or exports of goods;
the introduction or increase of quantitative restrictions on imports or exports of goods, whether made effective through quotas, import or export licences or other measures;
the suspension of concessions regarding goods, services or suppliers in the area of public procurement, through:
the exclusion from public procurement of suppliers of goods or services established in and operating from the third country concerned and/or of tenders the total value of which is made up of more than 50 % of goods or services originating in the third country concerned; and/or
the imposition of a mandatory price penalty on tenders of suppliers of goods or services established in and operating from the third country concerned and/or on that part of the tender consisting of goods or services originating in the third country concerned.
Measures adopted under this regulation may include:
the suspension, modification and repeal of measures;
the repeal of an implementing act adopted under this regulation in any of the following circumstances:
when the third country whose measures were found to be in breach of international trade rules in a dispute settlement procedure brings itself into compliance, or where a mutually satisfactory solution has otherwise been reached;
in cases of rebalancing of concessions or other obligations following the adoption by a third country of a safeguard measure, when the safeguard measure is withdrawn or expires, or when the third country concerned accords adequate and proportionate compensation to the EU after the adoption of an implementing act under this regulation;
in cases of modification of concessions by a WTO member under Article XXVIII of the GATT 1994, when the third country concerned accords adequate and proportionate compensation to the EU after the adoption of an implementing act under this regulation;
the introduction of any appropriate amendments in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 8(2).
The regulation also lays down rules on the following:
rules of origin;
the suspension, modification and repeal of measures;
information gathering;
the review of the regulation, including the scope of its application, and the examination of possible measures in the sector of intellectual property rights and additional measures concerning services.
FROM WHEN DOES THE REGULATION APPLY?
It entered into force on 4 August 2014.
BACKGROUND
The EU has concluded many international trade agreements. The aim of Regulation (EU) No 654/2014 is to ensure that it can enforce its rights under these agreements when necessary.
For more information, see ‘Enforcing the EU’s rights under trade agreements’ on the European Commission's website.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force
Deadline for implementation into national law
Regulation (EU) No 654/2014
4.8.2014
—
RELATED ACTS
Regulation (EC) No 3286/94 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 December 1994 laying down Community procedures in the field of the common commercial policy in order to ensure the exercise of the Community's rights under international trade rules, in particular those established under the auspices of the World Trade Organisation (OJ L 349, 31.12.1994, pp. 71-77).
See consolidated version.
last update 09.09.2016



Summary 95:
 Regulation (EU) No 20/2013 on the bilateral safeguard clause and the stabilisation mechanism for bananas
SUMMARY
SUMMARY
Regulation (EU) No 20/2013 establishes the rules for the bilateral safeguard clause and the stabilisation mechanism for bananas of the Agreement establishing an Association between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and Central America on the other.
WHAT HARM DOES THIS REGULATION ADDRESS?
It aims to ensure the effective application of the bilateral safeguard clause and the stabilisation mechanism for bananas of the Agreement establishing an Association between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and Central America on the other.
KEY POINTS
The regulation establishes the rules for the bilateral safeguard clause and the stabilisation mechanism for bananas of the Agreement establishing an Association between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and Central America on the other.
The regulation also establishes a number of rules for the application of the safeguard measures.
The Commission shall monitor the evolution of import statistics of bananas from Central American countries.
The Commission shall present an annual monitoring report to the European Parliament and to the Council on updated statistics on imports from Central American countries of bananas and those sectors to which monitoring has been extended.
The Commission may consider extending the scope of the monitoring to other sectors upon a duly justified request by the industries concerned.
The Commission shall monitor the observance by Central American countries of the social and environmental standards laid down in Title VIII of Part IV of the Agreement.
The Commission shall initiate proceedings upon request by a Member State, by any legal person or any association not having legal personality acting on behalf of the Union industry, or on the Commission's own initiative if it is apparent to the Commission that there is sufficient prima facie evidence, as determined on the basis of factors referred to in Article 5(5), to justify such initiation.
The Commission shall seek all information it considers necessary to make a determination with regard to the conditions set out in Article 2(1), and, shall, where appropriate, endeavour to verify that information.
The Commission shall adopt prior surveillance measures in regard to imports from a Central American country where:
the trend in imports of a product is such that it could lead to one of the situations referred to in Articles 2 and 4; or
there is a surge of imports of bananas concentrated in one or several Member States, or in one or several of the Union's outermost regions.
The Commission may adopt provisional safeguard measures in critical circumstances where a delay would cause damage which would be difficult to repair, pursuant to a preliminary determination on the basis of the factors referred to in Article 5(5) that imports of a product originating in a Central American country have increased as a result of the reduction or elimination of a customs duty in accordance with the Tariff Elimination Schedule, and such imports cause serious injury, or threat thereof, to the Union industry.
The Commission may adopt prior surveillance measures in accordance with the advisory procedure referred to in Article 14(2).
The Commission shall adopt provisional safeguard measures in accordance with the advisory procedure referred to in Article 14(2). In cases of imperative grounds of urgency, including the case referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article, the Commission shall adopt immediately applicable provisional safeguard measures in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 14(4).
The Commission shall adopt prior surveillance measures in accordance with the advisory procedure referred to in Article 14(2).
The Commission shall adopt provisional safeguard measures in accordance with the advisory procedure referred to in Article 14(2). In cases of imperative grounds of urgency, including the case referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article, the Commission shall adopt immediately applicable provisional safeguard measures in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 14(4).
The Commission shall adopt provisional safeguard measures in accordance with the advisory procedure referred to in Article 14(2).
The Commission shall adopt provisional safeguard measures in accordance with the advisory procedure referred to in Article 14(2). In cases of imperative grounds of urgency, including the case referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article, the Commission shall adopt immediately applicable provisional safeguard measures in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 14(4).
The Commission shall adopt provisional safeguard measures in accordance with the advisory procedure referred to in Article 14(2). In cases of imperative grounds of urgency, including the case referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article, the Commission shall adopt immediately applicable provisional safeguard measures in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 14(4).
The Commission shall adopt provisional safeguard measures in accordance with the advisory procedure referred to in Article 14(2). In cases of imperative grounds of urgency, including the case referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article, the Commission shall adopt immediately applicable provisional safeguard measures in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 14(4).
The Commission shall adopt provisional safeguard measures in accordance with the advisory procedure referred to in Article 14(2). In cases of imperative grounds of urgency, including the case referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article, the Commission shall adopt immediately applicable provisional safeguard measures in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 14(4).
The Commission shall adopt provisional safeguard measures in accordance with the advisory procedure referred to in Article 14(2). In cases of imperative grounds of urgency, including the case referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article, the Commission shall adopt immediately applicable provisional safeguard measures in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 14(4).
The Commission shall adopt provisional safeguard measures in accordance with the advisory procedure referred to in Article 14(2). In cases of imperative grounds of urgency, including the case referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article, the Commission shall adopt immediately applicable provisional safeguard measures in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 14(4).
The Commission shall adopt provisional safeguard measures in accordance with the advisory procedure referred to in Article 14(2). In cases of imperative grounds of urgency, including the case referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article, the Commission shall adopt immediately applicable provisional safeguard measures in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 14(4).
The Commission shall adopt provisional safeguard measures in accordance with the advisory procedure referred to in Article 14(2). In cases of imperative grounds of urgency, including the case referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article, the Commission shall adopt immediately applicable provisional safeguard measures in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 14(4).
The Commission shall adopt provisional safeguard measures in accordance with the advisory procedure referred to in Article 14(2). In cases of imperative grounds of urgency, including the case referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article, the Commission shall adopt immediately applicable provisional safeguard measures in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 14(4).
The Commission shall adopt provisional safeguard measures in accordance with the advisory procedure referred to in Article 14(2). In cases of imperative grounds of urgency, including the case referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article, the Commission shall adopt immediately applicable provisional safeguard measures in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 14(4).
The Commission shall adopt provisional safeguard measures in accordance with the advisory procedure referred to in Article 14(2). In cases of imperative grounds of urgency, including the case referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article, the Commission shall adopt immediately applicable provisional



Summary 96:




Summary 97:
 
Surveillance of external sea borders (Regulation (EU) No 656/2014)
Surveillance of external sea borders (Regulation (EU) No 656/2014)
This Regulation establishes rules for the surveillance of the external sea borders in the context of operational cooperation coordinated by the European Agency for the Management of Operational Cooperation at the External Borders of the Member States of the European Union.
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
              
It aims to establish specific rules for the surveillance of the sea borders by border guards operating under the coordination of the European Agency for the Management of Operational Cooperation at the External Borders of the Member States of the European Union.
KEY POINTS
The Regulation applies to border surveillance operations carried out by Member States at their external sea borders in the context of operational cooperation coordinated by the European Agency for the Management of Operational Cooperation at the External Borders of the Member States of the European Union.
The Regulation establishes rules for border surveillance operations at sea and for the coordination of border surveillance operations by the European Agency for the Management of Operational Cooperation at the External Borders of the Member States of the European Union.
In order to ensure the safety of persons intercepted or rescued, the measures taken for the purpose of a border surveillance operation shall be conducted in a way that, in all instances, ensures the safety of the persons intercepted or rescued, the safety of the participating units or that of third parties.
No person shall, in contravention of the principle of non-refoulement, be disembarked in, forced to enter, conducted to or otherwise handed over to the authorities of a country where, inter alia, there is a serious risk that he or she would be subjected to the death penalty, torture, persecution or other inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment, or where his or her life or freedom would be threatened on account of his or her race, religion, nationality, sexual orientation, membership of a particular social group or political opinion, or from which there is a serious risk of an expulsion, removal or extradition to another country in contravention of the principle of non-refoulement.
The participating units shall, in the performance of their duties, fully respect human dignity.
Upon detection, the participating units shall approach a vessel suspected of carrying persons circumventing or intending to circumvent checks at border crossing points or of being engaged in the smuggling of migrants by sea in order to observe its identity and nationality and, pending further measures, shall survey that vessel at a prudent distance taking all due precautions.
The participating units shall collect and immediately report information about that vessel to the International Coordination Centre, including, where possible, information about the situation of persons on board, in particular whether there is an imminent risk to their lives or whether there are persons in urgent need of medical assistance.
The International Coordination Centre shall transmit that information to the National Coordination Centre of the host Member State.
The participating units shall collect and report information about any vessel suspected of being engaged in illegal activities at sea, which are outside the scope of the sea operation, to the International Coordination Centre, which shall transmit that information to the National Coordination Centre of the Member State concerned.
In the territorial sea of the host Member State or a neighbouring participating Member State, that State shall authorise the participating units to take one or more of the following measures where there are reasonable grounds to suspect that a vessel may be carrying persons intending to circumvent checks at border crossing points or is engaged in the smuggling of migrants by sea:
requesting information and documentation on ownership, registration and elements relating to the voyage of the vessel, and on the identity, nationality and other relevant data on persons on board, including whether there are persons in urgent need of medical assistance, and making persons on board aware that they may not be authorised to cross the border;
stopping, boarding and searching the vessel, its cargo and persons on board, and questioning persons on board and informing them that persons directing the vessel may face penalties for facilitating the voyage.
If evidence confirming that suspicion is found, that host Member State or neighbouring participating Member State may authorise the participating units to take one or more of the following measures:
seizing the vessel and apprehending persons on board;
ordering the vessel to alter its course outside of or towards a destination other than the territorial sea or the contiguous zone, including escorting the vessel or steaming nearby until it is confirmed that the vessel is keeping to that given course;
conducting the vessel or persons on board to the coastal Member State in accordance with the operational plan.
Any measure taken in accordance on the Regulation shall be proportionate and shall not exceed what is necessary to achieve the objectives of the Regulation.
For the purposes of the Regulation, the host Member State shall instruct the participating unit appropriately through the International Coordination Centre.
The participating units shall collect and immediately report information about that vessel to the International Coordination Centre, including, where possible, information about the situation of persons on board, in particular whether there is an imminent risk to their lives or whether there are persons in urgent need of medical assistance.
The International Coordination Centre shall transmit that information to the National Coordination Centre of the host Member State.
The participating units shall collect and report information about any vessel suspected of being engaged in illegal activities at sea, which are outside the scope of the sea operation, to the International Coordination Centre, which shall transmit that information to the National Coordination Centre of the Member State concerned.
On the high seas, where there are reasonable grounds to suspect that a vessel is engaged in the smuggling of migrants by sea, the participating units shall take one or more of the following measures, subject to the authorisation of the flag State, in accordance with the Protocol against the Smuggling of Migrants, and where relevant, national and international law:
requesting information and documentation on ownership, registration and elements relating to the voyage of the vessel, and on the identity, nationality and other relevant data on persons on board, including whether there are persons in urgent need of medical assistance;
stopping, boarding and searching the vessel, its cargo and persons on board, and questioning persons on board and informing them that persons directing the vessel may face penalties for facilitating the voyage.
If evidence confirming that suspicion is found, the participating units may take one or more of the following measures, subject to the authorisation of the flag State, in accordance with the Protocol against the Smuggling of Migrants, and where relevant, national and international law:
seizing the vessel and apprehending persons on board;
warning and ordering the vessel not to enter the territorial sea or the contiguous zone, and, where necessary, requesting the vessel to alter its course towards a destination other than the territorial sea or the contiguous zone;
conducting the vessel or persons on board to a third country or otherwise handing over the vessel or persons on board to the authorities of a third country;
conducting the vessel or persons on board to the host Member State or to a neighbouring participating Member State.
Any measure taken in accordance with paragraph 1 or 2 shall be proportionate and shall not exceed what is necessary to achieve the objectives of the Regulation.
For the purposes of the Regulation, the host Member State shall instruct the participating unit appropriately through the International Coordination Centre.
Where there are reasonable grounds to suspect that a stateless vessel is carrying persons intending to circumvent the checks at border crossing points or is engaged in the smuggling of migrants by sea, the host



Summary 98:
 
EU home affairs policy: laying down general provisions
EU home affairs policy: laying down general provisions
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 514/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down general provisions on the Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund and on the instrument for financial support for police cooperation, preventing and combating crime, and crisis management
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It lays down general rules for the implementation of the Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund (AMIF) and the Instrument for Internal Affairs (IIRA) (previously known as the General Border Management Fund).
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to:
the AMIF;
the IIRA;
any other regulation which provides for the application of this regulation.
Programming
The objectives of the AMIF and the IIRA are pursued within the framework of the multiannual programming for the period 2014-20, subject to a mid-term review.
The Commission, the Member States and the European Parliament (EP) shall engage in a policy dialogue before the preparation of the national programmes. The Commission shall examine whether the national programmes are consistent with the outcome of the policy dialogue and whether the distribution of Union funding complies with the minimum percentage set per objective in the relevant specific regulation.
The Commission shall regularly inform the EP of the outcome of the policy dialogues, of the full programming process including the preparation of national programmes and of the implementation of the national programmes.
Each Member State shall establish, in a manner consistent with the principle of proportionality and the need to minimise administrative burden, a partnership with the authorities and bodies concerned to develop and implement its national programmes throughout the entire multiannual period.
Each Member State shall set up a committee to monitor the national programme and assist it in reviewing the implementation and the progress made in achieving the programme objectives.
Each Member State shall be responsible for establishing the practical arrangements for setting up the monitoring committee.
Eligibility of expenditure
Eligibility of expenditure under the national programmes is determined by national law, subject to common principles set out in this regulation. The starting and closing dates for the eligibility of expenditure are defined in order to provide for uniform and equitable rules applying to the national programmes.
Technical assistance
Technical assistance shall enable the Member States to support the implementation of their national programmes and assist beneficiaries in complying with their obligations and Union law. Where appropriate, technical assistance could cover the costs incurred by the competent authorities in third countries.
Expenditure on actions in third countries
The Commission may decide to finance Union actions and emergency assistance in or in relation to third countries in accordance with the objectives and actions defined in the specific regulations. Where such actions are implemented directly, the following entities may submit grant applications:
Member States;
third countries, in duly justified cases where a grant is necessary to achieve the objectives of this regulation and the specific regulation(s);
joint bodies set up by third countries and the Union or by Member States;
international organisations, including regional organisations, UN bodies, international financial institutions and development banks and institutions of international jurisdiction in so far as they contribute to the objectives of the specific regulation(s) concerned;
the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) and International Federation of National Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies;
non-governmental organisations established and registered in the Union and in the countries associated with the implementation, application and development of the Schengen acquis;
Union agencies for emergency assistance.
Management and control systems
The obligations on the Member States as regards management and control systems and the prevention, detection and correction of irregularities and infringements of Union law shall be specified in order to guarantee the efficient and correct implementation of their national programmes.
The Commission and the Member States shall ensure that the support provided under the specific regulations and by the Member States is consistent with the relevant activities, policies and priorities of the Union and is complementary to other Union instruments, while taking into account the specific context of each Member State.
The Commission and the Member States, together with the European External Action Service (EEAS) as regards actions in and in relation to third countries, shall ensure coordination between this regulation and the specific regulations, and with other relevant Union policies, strategies and instruments, including those in the framework of the Union’s external action.
The Commission and the Member States shall apply the principle of sound financial management in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 966/2014, in particular in accordance with the principles of economy, efficiency and effectiveness as provided for in Article 30 of that regulation.
The Commission and the Member States shall ensure the effectiveness of the support provided under the specific regulations, including through monitoring, reporting and evaluation.
FROM WHEN DOES THE REGULATION APPLY?
              
It applies from 1 January 2014.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force
Deadline for implementation into the Member States’ legal systems
Regulation (EU) No 514/2014
1.1.2014
-
RELATED ACTS
Regulation (EU) No 513/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on the establishment of 'EURODAC' and on Council Decision 2009/316/JHA specifying measures and arrangements to implement the Establishment of EURODAC System (OJ L 152, 22.5.2014, pp. 1-23).
See consolidated version.
Regulation (EU) No 516/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 establishing the Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund and repealing Regulation (EC) No 2394/2000 (OJ L 152, 22.5.2014, pp. 28-34).
See consolidated version.
Regulation (EU) No 1311/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 establishing Couples for Peace II — European Instrument for Support, Prevention and Preparedness, and repealing Regulation (EU) No 522/2012 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, pp. 1-4).
See consolidated version.
last update 24.11.2017



Summary 99:
 EU Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund
EU Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes the Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund (AMIF) for the period from 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2020. It lays down the objectives of financial support, the eligible actions and the general framework for their implementation, the available financial resources and their distribution, the principles and mechanism for the establishment of common Union resettlement priorities and the financial assistance provided for the activities of the European Migration Network.
The AMIF forms part of a coherent framework consisting of this regulation and Regulation (EU) No 513/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council. For the purpose of the AMIF, the partnership provided for in Regulation (EU) No 514/2014 includes relevant international organisations, non-governmental organisations and social partners.
KEY POINTS
The AMIF supports:
the strengthening and development of the common asylum and migration policy of the European Union;
the implementation of the common immigration policy;
the integration of third-country nationals (i.e. non-EU nationals) and their families;
the return of irregular migrants (i.e. people without the required immigration status) and the prevention of illegal immigration.
The AMIF aims to:
contribute to the efficient management of migration flows;
contribute to the implementation, strengthening and development of the common policy on asylum, subsidiary protection and temporary protection and the common immigration policy;
respect the rights and principles enshrined in the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union.
The AMIF supports the following specific objectives:
to strengthen and develop all aspects of the Common European Asylum System, including its external dimension;
to support legal migration to the Member States in accordance with their economic and social needs, such as labour market needs, while safeguarding the integrity of the immigration systems of Member States, and to promote the effective integration of third-country nationals;
to enhance fair and effective return strategies in the Member States which contribute to combating illegal immigration, with an emphasis on sustainability of return and effective readmission in the countries of origin and transit;
to enhance solidarity and responsibility-sharing between the Member States, in particular towards those most affected by migration and asylum flows, including through practical cooperation.
The AMIF provides financial assistance for the activities of the European Migration Network established by Council Decision 2008/381/EC.
The AMIF is implemented in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 514/2014.
FROM WHEN DOES THE REGULATION APPLY?
              
It applies from 1 January 2014.
BACKGROUND
              
The AMIF, established by Regulation (EU) No 516/2014, forms part of a coherent framework consisting of this regulation and Regulation (EU) No 513/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council. For the purpose of the AMIF, the partnership provided for in Regulation (EU) No 514/2014 includes relevant international organisations, non-governmental organisations and social partners.
The AMIF replaces the European Refugee Fund, the European Fund for the Integration of third-country nationals and the European Return Fund established by Decisions No 573/2007/EC, No 575/2007/EC and 2007/435/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council.
For more information, please see:
Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
              
Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund: the name of the Fund established by Regulation (EU) No 516/2014.
Resettlement: the process whereby, on a request from the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) based on a person’s need for international protection, third-country nationals are transferred from a third country and established in a Member State where they are permitted to reside with one of the following statuses:
refugee status within the meaning of point (e) of Article 2 of Directive 2011/95/EU;
subsidiary protection status within the meaning of point (g) of Article 2 of Directive 2011/95/EU; or
any other status which offers similar rights and benefits under national and Union law as those referred to in points (i) and (ii).
Other humanitarian admission programmes: an ad hoc process whereby a Member State admits a number of third-country nationals to stay on its territory for a temporary period of time in order to protect them from urgent humanitarian crises due to events such as political developments or conflicts.
International protection: refugee status and subsidiary protection status within the meaning of Directive 2011/95/EU.
Return: the process of a third-country national going back, whether in voluntary compliance with an obligation to return or enforced, as defined in Article 3 of Directive 2008/115/EC.
Third-country national: any person who is not a citizen of the Union within the meaning of Article 20(1) TFEU. Reference to third-country nationals shall be understood to include stateless persons and persons with undetermined nationality.
Removal: the enforcement of the obligation to return, namely the physical transportation out of the Member State, as defined in Article 3 of Directive 2008/115/EC.
Voluntary departure: compliance with the obligation to return within the time-limit fixed for that purpose in the return decision, as defined in Article 3 of Directive 2008/115/EC.
Unaccompanied minor: a third-country national below the age of 18 years, who arrives or arrived on the territory of a Member State unaccompanied by an adult responsible for him/her whether by law or the national practice of the Member State concerned, and for as long as he/she is not effectively taken into the care of such a person; it includes a minor who is left unaccompanied after he/she entered the territory of a Member State.
Vulnerable person: any third-country national who complies with the definition under Union law relevant to the policy area of action supported under the Fund.
Family member: any third-country national who complies with the definition under Union law relevant to the policy area of action supported under the Fund.
Emergency situation: a situation resulting from:
heavy migratory pressure in one or more Member States characterised by a large and disproportionate inflow of third-country nationals, which places significant and urgent demands on their reception and detention facilities, asylum systems and procedures;
the implementation of temporary protection mechanisms within the meaning of Directive 2001/55/EC; or
heavy migratory pressure in third countries where refugees are stranded due to events such as political developments or conflicts.
MAIN DOCUMENTS
              
Regulation (EU) No 516/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 establishing the Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund, amending Council Decision 2008/381/EC and repealing Decisions No 573/2007/EC and No 575/2007/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council and Council Decision 2007/435/EC (OJ L 150, 20.5.2014, pp. 168-182).
Successive amendments to Regulation (EU) No 516/2014 have been incorporated in the basic text for the sake of clarity.
last update 18.10.2017



Summary 100:
 
Police cooperation, preventing and combating crime and crisis management (EU Instrument for financial support)
Police cooperation, preventing and combating crime and crisis management (EU Instrument for financial support)
SUMMARY
WHAT DOES THIS REGULATION DO?
It establishes the instrument for financial support for police cooperation, preventing and combating crime, and crisis management (the Instrument) as part of the Internal Security Fund (the Fund). The Fund is established for the period from 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2020.
KEY POINTS
The Instrument supports:
strengthening coordination and cooperation between law enforcement authorities;
prevention and combating of crime, in particular cross-border, serious and organised crime including terrorism;
protection of people and critical infrastructure against security-related incidents;
enhancing the capacity of Member States and the Union to manage effectively security-related risks and crises.
The Instrument supports all actions that are consistent with priorities and initiatives identified at Union level, in particular those that have been endorsed by the European Parliament and the Council.
The Instrument provides for the application of the rules set out in Regulation (EU) No 514/2014.
The Instrument complements the instrument for financial support for external borders and visa established by Regulation (EU) No 515/2014. Together, these instruments constitute the Fund.
The Instrument is implemented through:
national programmes;
Union actions;
technical assistance;
emergency assistance.
The global resources for the implementation of the Instrument are EUR 1 004 million in current prices.
The budget allocated under the Instrument to Union actions, to the technical assistance and to the emergency assistance shall be implemented under direct and indirect management.
The budget allocated to the national programmes shall be implemented under shared management.
The Fund is complemented by Regulation (EU) No 514/2014 which establishes the European Border and Coast Guard. The European Border and Coast Guard Agency (Frontex) is the executive agency for the implementation of the Fund.
FROM WHEN DOES THE REGULATION APPLY?
              
It applies from 1 January 2014.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force
Deadline for implementation in the Member States
Regulation (EU) No 513/2014
1.5.2014
-
ACT
Council Regulation (EU) No 513/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 establishing, as part of the Internal Security Fund, the instrument for financial support for police cooperation, preventing and combating crime, and crisis management and repealing Council Decision 2007/125/JHA (OJ L 150, 20.5.2014, pp. 93-104)
RELATED ACTS
Regulation (EU) No 514/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 establishing Frontier-Tech, the European Border and Coast Guard and strengthening cooperation, development and operations of the European Agency for the Management of Operational Cooperation at the External Borders and Common European Asylum System (OJ L 150, 20.5.2014, pp. 104-116)
Regulation (EU) No 515/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 establishing the Internal Security Fund, amending Council Decision 2007/125/JHA and repealing Regulation (EU) No 863/2014 (OJ L 150, 20.5.2014, pp. 110-117)
Council Decision 2007/125/JHA of 22 January 2007 establishing a partnership programme delivering research results exploiting European Union intellectual property rights (OJ L 41, 14.2.2007, pp. 25-31)
Last updated: 15.09.2015



Summary 101:
 Regulation (EU) No 1026/2012 on certain measures for the purpose of the conservation of fish stocks in relation to countries allowing non-sustainable fishing
SUMMARY
WHAT DOES THIS REGULATION DO?
It establishes a legal framework for the adoption of certain measures by the European Commission in relation to the fisheries-related activities and policies of third countries in order to ensure the long-term conservation of stocks of common interest to the Union and those third countries.
KEY POINTS
WHAT STOCKS ARE CONSIDERED TO BE IN AN UNSUSTAINABLE STATE?
Fish stocks are considered to be in an unsustainable state when they are not continuously maintained at or above the levels that can produce maximum sustainable yield or, if these levels cannot be estimated, when the stocks are not continuously maintained within safe biological limits.
WHAT MEASURES MAY BE ADOPTED?
The Commission may adopt the following measures in respect of a country allowing non-sustainable fishing:
identifying that country as a country allowing non-sustainable fishing;
identifying, where necessary, the specific vessels or fleets of that country to which certain measures are to apply;
imposing quantitative restrictions on importations of fish from the stock of common interest that have been caught under the control of that country and on importations of fishery products made of or containing such fish;
imposing quantitative restrictions on importations of fish of any associated species, and fishery products made of or containing such fish, when caught while conducting fisheries on the stock of common interest under the control of that country;
imposing restrictions on the use of Union ports by vessels flying the flag of that country that fish the stock of common interest and/or associated species and by vessels transporting fish and fishery products stemming from the stock of common interest and/or associated species that have been caught either by vessels flying the flag of that country or by vessels authorised by it while flying another flag;
prohibiting the purchase by Union economic operators of a fishing vessel flying the flag of that country;
prohibiting the reflagging of fishing vessels flying the flag of a Member State to the flag of that country;
prohibiting Member States from authorising the conclusion of chartering agreements whereby Union economic operators charter their vessels to economic operators of that country;
prohibiting the exportation to that country of fishing vessels flying the flag of a Member State or of fishing equipment and supplies needed to fish on the stock of common interest;
prohibiting the conclusion of private trade arrangements between Union economic operators and that country that enable a fishing vessel flying the flag of a Member State to use fishing opportunities of that country;
prohibiting joint fishing operations involving fishing vessels flying the flag of a Member State and fishing vessels flying the flag of that country.
The Commission shall adopt immediately applicable implementing acts where, in duly justified cases relating to the end of application of measures taken pursuant to this Regulation, imperative grounds of urgency so require.
WHEN MAY MEASURES BE ADOPTED?
The Commission may adopt the above-mentioned measures where:
a country fails to cooperate in the management of a stock of common interest in full compliance with the provisions of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) and the Agreement establishing the World Trade Organisation (WTO);
it fails to adopt necessary fishery management measures;
it adopts fishery management measures without due regard to the rights, interests and duties of other countries and the Union, and those fishery management measures, when considered in conjunction with measures taken by other countries and the Union, lead to fishing activities which could result in the stock being in an unsustainable state.
The Commission shall notify the country concerned of the intention to identify it as a country allowing non-sustainable fishing. That notification shall include information on the reasons for the identification of that country as a country allowing non-sustainable fishing and shall describe the possible measures that may be taken in relation to it pursuant to this Regulation.
The Commission shall provide the country concerned with a reasonable opportunity to respond to the notification in writing and to remedy the situation within one month of receiving that notification.
The Commission shall adopt immediately applicable implementing acts where, in duly justified cases relating to the end of application of measures taken pursuant to this Regulation, imperative grounds of urgency so require.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force
Regulation (EU) No 1026/2012
12.11.2012
Last updated: 30.05.2014



Summary 102:
 EU investment policy and bilateral investment agreements
EU investment policy and bilateral investment agreements
SUMMARY
WHAT DOES THIS REGULATION DO?
It establishes transitional arrangements for bilateral investment agreements between EU countries and third countries.
It provides for the maintenance in force of existing agreements signed before 1 December 2009.
It provides for the authorisation of EU countries to amend or conclude agreements signed between 1 December 2009 and 9 January 2013.
It provides for the authorisation of EU countries to amend or conclude agreements signed after 9 January 2013.
KEY POINTS
The regulation does not affect the allocation of competences between the EU and its Member States in accordance with the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
The regulation does not affect the application of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) and other Union legislation.
The regulation does not affect the application of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) and other Union legislation.
EU countries may notify the European Commission of all bilateral investment agreements with third countries signed before 1 December 2009 or before the date of their accession to the EU, whichever is later.
The Commission may assess whether the provisions of the agreements notified under this provision constitute a serious obstacle to the negotiation or conclusion by the EU of bilateral investment agreements with third countries, with a view to the progressive replacement of the agreements notified under this provision.
EU countries may amend or conclude bilateral investment agreements with third countries, subject to the conditions laid down in Articles 8 to 11 of the regulation.
The Commission may authorise the EU countries to open formal negotiations with a third country to amend or conclude a bilateral investment agreement.
The Commission may grant the authorisation to sign and conclude a bilateral investment agreement only where it concludes that the opening of such negotiations would:
not be in conflict with Union law other than the incompatibilities arising from the allocation of competences between the EU and its Member States;
not be superfluous, because the Commission has submitted or has decided to submit a recommendation to open negotiations with the third country concerned pursuant to Article 218(3) TFEU;
not be inconsistent with the EU’s principles and objectives for external action as elaborated in accordance with the general provisions laid down in Chapter 1 of Title V of the Treaty on European Union; or
constitute a serious obstacle to the negotiation or conclusion of bilateral investment agreements with third countries by the EU.
The Commission may require the EU country concerned to include or remove from such negotiations and prospective bilateral investment agreements any clauses where necessary to ensure consistency with the EU’s investment policy or compatibility with Union law.
The Commission may grant the authorisation to sign and conclude a bilateral investment agreement only where it concludes that the negotiations have resulted in a bilateral investment agreement which fulfils the requirements of Article 9(1) and (2) of the regulation.
EU countries may notify the Commission of all bilateral investment agreements with third countries signed between 1 December 2009 and 9 January 2013, whichever is later.
The Commission may grant an authorisation to sign and conclude a bilateral investment agreement only where it concludes that the negotiated bilateral investment agreement fulfils the requirements of Article 9(1) and (2) of the regulation.
FROM WHEN DOES THE REGULATION APPLY?
              
It applies from 20 January 2013.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force
Static link
DOI
Regulation (EU) No 1219/2012
20.1.2013
Static link
DOI
The table below provides more information:
Regulation (EU) No 1219/2012
20.1.2013
Regulation (EU) No 1218/2012
17.12.2012
Regulation (EU) No 1217/2012
17.12.2012
Regulation (EU) No 1216/2012
17.12.2012
Regulation (EU) No 1215/2012
17.12.2012
Regulation (EU) No 1214/2012
17.12.2012
Regulation (EU) No 1213/2012
17.12.2012
Regulation (EU) No 1212/2012
17.12.2012
Regulation (EU) No 1211/2012
17.12.2012
Regulation (EU) No 1210/2012
17.12.2012
Regulation (EU) No 1208/2012
17.12.2012
Regulation (EU) No 1207/2012
17.12.2012
Regulation (EU) No 1206/2012
17.12.2012
Regulation (EU) No 1205/2012
17.12.2012
Regulation (EU) No 1204/2012
17.12.2012
Regulation (EU) No 1203/2012
17.12.2012
Regulation (EU) No 1202/2012
17.12.2012
Regulation (EU) No 1201/2012
17.12.2012
Regulation (EU) No 1199/2012
17.12.2012
Regulation (EU) No 1198/2012
17.12.2012
Regulation (EU) No 1197/2012
17.12.2012
Regulation (EU) No 1196/2012
17.12.2012
Regulation (EU) No 1195/2012
17.12.2012
Regulation (EU) No 1194/2012
17.12.2012
Regulation (EU) No 1193/2012
17.12.2012
Regulation (EU) No 1192/2012
17.12.2012
Regulation (EU) No 1191/2012
17.12.2012
Regulation (EU) No 1190/2012
17.12.2012
Regulation (EU) No 1188/2012
17.12.2012
Regulation (EU) No 1187/2012
17.12.2012
Regulation (EU) No 1186/2012
17.12.2012
Regulation (EU) No 1185/2012
17.12.2012
Regulation (EU) No 1184/2012
17.12.2012
Regulation (EU) No 1183/2012
17.12.2012
Regulation (EU) No 1182/2012
17.12.2012
Regulation (EU) No 1181/2012
17.12.2012
Regulation (EU) No 1180/2012
17.12.2012
Regulation (EU) No 1179/2012
17.12.2012
Regulation (EU) No



Summary 103:




Summary 104:
 
Firearms — export authorisation, import and transit measures
Firearms — export authorisation, import and transit measures
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 258/2012 — implementing Article 10 of the United Nations’ Protocol against the illicit manufacturing of and trafficking in firearms, their parts and components and ammunition, supplementing the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organised Crime (UN Firearms Protocol), and establishing export authorisation, and import and transit measures for firearms, their parts and components and ammunition
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
              
It establishes rules on export authorisation, import and transit measures for firearms, their parts and essential components and ammunition, in order to implement Article 10 of the United Nations’ Protocol against the illicit manufacturing of and trafficking in firearms, their parts and components and ammunition, supplementing the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organised Crime (UN Firearms Protocol).
KEY POINTS
Firearms, their parts and essential components and ammunition
The regulation applies to firearms, their parts and essential components and ammunition listed in Annex I. It does not apply to:
state-to-state transactions or state transfers;
firearms specially designed for military use and, in any case, firearms of the fully automatic firing type;
firearms destined for the armed forces, the police, or the public authorities of the EU;
collectors and bodies concerned with cultural and historical aspects of firearms, their parts and essential components and ammunition and recognised as such by the EU country in whose territory they are established, provided that tracing measures are ensured;
deactivated firearms;
antique firearms and their replicas as defined in accordance with national legislation, provided that antique firearms do not include firearms manufactured after 1899.
Export authorisation
An export authorisation established in accordance with the form set out in Annex II is required for the export of firearms, their parts and essential components and ammunition listed in Annex I. Such authorisation shall be granted by the competent authorities of the EU country where the exporter is established and shall be issued in writing or by electronic means.
Simplified procedures for the temporary export or the re-export of firearms, their parts, essential components and ammunition shall apply as follows:
no export authorisation shall be required for the temporary export by hunters or sport shooters as part of their accompanied personal effects, during a journey to a third country, provided that they substantiate to the competent authorities the reasons for the journey, in particular by producing an invitation or other proof of the hunting or sport shooting activities in the third country of destination, of:
one or more firearms,
their essential components, if marked, as well as parts,
their related ammunition, limited to a maximum of 800 rounds for hunters and a maximum of 1 200 rounds for sport shooters;
the re-export by hunters or sport shooters as part of their accompanied personal effects following temporary admission for hunting or sport shooting activities, provided that the firearms remain the property of a person established outside the customs territory of the EU and the firearms are re-exported to that person.
In deciding whether to grant an export authorisation under this Regulation, EU countries shall take into account all relevant considerations including, where appropriate:
their obligations and commitments as parties to the relevant international export control arrangements or relevant international treaties;
considerations of national foreign and security policy, including those covered by Common Position 2008/944/CFSP;
considerations as to intended end use, consignee, identified final recipient and the risk of diversion.
When assessing an application for an export authorisation, EU countries shall take into account the application by the exporter of proportionate and adequate means and procedures to ensure compliance with the provisions and objectives of this Regulation and with the terms and conditions of the authorisation.
EU countries shall, in case of suspicion, request the importing third country to confirm receipt of the dispatched shipment of firearms, their parts and essential components or ammunition.
Import and transit measures
The regulation also establishes import and transit measures for firearms, their parts and essential components and ammunition.
The exporter shall supply the competent authority of the EU country responsible for issuing the export authorisation with the necessary documents proving that the importing third country has authorised the import and that the third country of transit had no objection to the transit.
The period of validity of an export authorisation shall not exceed the period of validity of the import authorisation. Where the import authorisation does not specify a period of validity, except under exceptional circumstances and for duly justified reasons, the period of validity of an export authorisation shall be at least 9 months.
The regulation does not prevent the EU countries from applying their constitutional rules relating to public access to official documents, taking into account Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001.
FROM WHEN DOES THE REGULATION APPLY?
              
It applies from 5 April 2012.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Regulation (EU) No 258/2012
5.4.2012
—
OJ L 94, 30.3.2012, p. 1-5
RELATED DOCUMENTS
Council Decision 2001/748/EC of 16 October 2001 concerning the signing on behalf of the European Community of the United Nations Protocol on the illicit manufacturing of and trafficking in firearms, their parts, components and ammunition, annexed to the Convention against transnational organised crime (OJ L 297, 12.11.2001, p. 17-18).
Regulation (EC) No 258/2012 (pdf) (pdf) (Summary & Facts)
Last updated: 18.04.2016



Summary 105:
 
EUROSUR – the European Border Surveillance System
EUROSUR – the European Border Surveillance System
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 1052/2013 on the establishment of the European Border Surveillance System (EUROSUR)
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
              
It establishes a common framework for the exchange of information and for the cooperation between EU countries in order to improve situational awareness and to increase reaction capability at the external borders of the EU for the purpose of detecting, preventing and combating illegal immigration and cross-border crime and contributing to ensuring the protection and saving the lives of migrants (EUROSUR).
KEY POINTS
              
The regulation applies to the surveillance of external land and sea borders, including the monitoring, detection, identification, tracking, prevention and interception of unauthorised border crossings for the purpose of detecting, preventing and combating illegal immigration and cross-border crime and contributing to ensuring the protection and saving the lives of migrants.
It may also apply to the surveillance of air borders as well as to checks at border crossing points if EU countries voluntarily provide such information to EUROSUR.
The regulation does not apply to any legal or administrative measure taken once the responsible authorities of a Member State have intercepted cross-border criminal activities or unauthorised crossings by persons of the external borders.
The regulation provides for the establishment of a national coordination centre in each EU country. The national coordination centre shall coordinate, and exchange information among, all authorities with a responsibility for external border surveillance at national level, as well as with the other national coordination centres and the European Border and Coast Guard Agency (formerly known as the European Agency for the Management of Operational Cooperation at the External Borders of the Member States of the European Union). Each EU country shall notify the establishment of its national coordination centre to the European Commission, which shall forthwith inform the other EU countries and the Agency thereof.
The Agency shall establish and maintain a communication network in order to provide communication and analytical tools and allow for the exchange of non-classified sensitive and classified information in a secure manner and in near-real-time with, and among, the national coordination centres.
The regulation provides for the establishment of a European situational picture and a common pre-frontier intelligence picture in order to provide the national coordination centres with effective, accurate and timely information and analysis on the pre-frontier area.
The regulation provides for the establishment of a common application of surveillance tools in order to supply the national coordination centres and itself with surveillance information on the external borders and on the pre-frontier area on a regular, reliable and cost-efficient basis.
FROM WHEN DOES THE REGULATION APPLY?
              
It applies from 2 December 2013.
REFERENCES
              
Regulation (EU) No 1052/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 October 2013 establishing the European Border Surveillance System (EUROSUR) (OJ L 295, 6.11.2013, pp. 13-22)
RELATED DOCUMENTS
              
Regulation (EU) 2016/399 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 May 2016 on a procedure for the issuance and control of Securitas and for the readmission of persons at the border (OJ L 157, 15.6.2016, pp. 21-27)
last update 16.12.2016



Summary 106:
 
Eurodac — fingerprint database for the EU
Eurodac — fingerprint database for the EU
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 603/2013 on the establishment of ‘Eurodac’ for the comparison of fingerprints for the effective application of Regulation (EU) No 604/2013 establishing the criteria and mechanisms for determining the Member State responsible for examining an application for international protection lodged in one of the Member States by a third-country national or a stateless person and on requests for the comparison with Eurodac data by Member States' law enforcement authorities and Europol for law enforcement purposes, and amending Regulation (EU) No 1077/2011 establishing a European Agency for the operational management of large-scale IT systems in the area of freedom, security and justice
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to establish a system for the comparison of fingerprints for the effective application of Regulation (EU) No 604/2013 (Dublin Regulation).
It also lays down the conditions under which EU countries’ designated authorities and the European Police Office (Europol) may request the comparison of fingerprint data with those stored in the Central System for law enforcement purposes.
KEY POINTS
Eurodac
Eurodac is a computerised central fingerprint database (Central System) composed of:
a Central Unit,
a Business Continuity Plan and System.
The Central System is linked to each EU country’s National Access Point by a communication infrastructure that provides an encrypted virtual network dedicated to Eurodac data.
Each EU country has a single National Access Point.
The rules governing Eurodac apply to operations carried out by the EU countries as from the transmission of data to the Central System until use is made of the results of the comparison.
The procedure for taking fingerprints is determined and applied in accordance with the national practice of the EU country concerned and in accordance with the national legislation.
The Central System consists of 2 databases:
a fingerprint database;
a supplementary fingerprint database.
The fingerprint database contains the fingerprint data of:
applicants for international protection;
persons apprehended in connection with the irregular crossing of an external border of an EU country;
persons who have applied for international protection in another EU country;
persons who have been granted international protection in an EU country;
persons who have been granted refugee status or who have been granted subsidiary protection in an EU country;
persons who have been granted a residence permit in an EU country;
persons who have been granted citizenship of an EU country.
The supplementary fingerprint database contains the fingerprint data of:
persons who have been convicted of a criminal offence in an EU country;
persons who have been convicted of a criminal offence in a non-EU country.
Data on persons covered by Articles 9(1), 14(1) and 17(1) (see Summary of Regulation (EU) No 604/2013) which are processed in the Central System shall be processed on behalf of the EU country of origin under the conditions set out in this Regulation and separated by appropriate technical means.
National Access Point
The National Access Point is a designated national system which communicates with the Central System.
Designated authorities
The designated authorities of the EU countries may request the comparison of fingerprint data with those stored in the Central System for law enforcement purposes.
The designated authorities are:
the authorities responsible for examining applications for international protection and for implementing the Dublin Regulation;
the authorities responsible for the prevention, detection and investigation of terrorist offences or of other serious criminal offences.
The designated authorities are responsible for ensuring, in an independent manner, strict compliance with the conditions for access as established in this Regulation.
The designated authorities are not allowed to request a comparison of fingerprint data for law enforcement purposes when the conditions for access are not met.
Requests for comparison of fingerprint data with those stored in the Central System for law enforcement purposes must be reasoned.
Requests for comparison of fingerprint data with those stored in the Central System for law enforcement purposes must be made through the National Access Point and the verifying authority.
The verifying authority must ensure, in an independent manner, strict compliance with the conditions for access as established in this Regulation before forwarding the request through the National Access Point to the Central System.
The designated authorities and the verifying authority may be part of the same organisation, if permitted under national law, but the verifying authority must act independently when performing its tasks under this Regulation.
Conditions for access
The designated authorities of the EU countries may request the comparison of fingerprint data with those stored in the Central System for law enforcement purposes in specific cases and under strict conditions.
The conditions for access are:
the data subject is at least 14 years of age;
there are reasonable grounds for believing that the data subject has committed a terrorist offence or other serious criminal offence;
the data subject has been the victim of a terrorist offence or other serious criminal offence;
the request for comparison is connected to a specific and concrete situation or to a specific and concrete danger associated with a terrorist offence or other serious criminal offence, or to specific persons in respect of whom there are serious grounds for believing that they will commit or have committed any such offence;
the request for comparison is connected to a person who is the victim of a terrorist offence or other serious criminal offence.
The designated authorities of the EU countries may request the comparison of fingerprint data with those stored in the Central System for law enforcement purposes only on condition that comparisons with the national fingerprint databases of the Member State and with the automated fingerprinting identification systems of all other Member States under Decision 2008/615/JHA did not lead to the establishment of the identity of the data subject.
The designated authorities of the EU countries may request the comparison of fingerprint data with those stored in the Central System for law enforcement purposes only on condition that the request for comparison is connected to a specific and concrete situation or to a specific and concrete danger associated with a terrorist offence or of other serious criminal offence, or to specific persons in respect of whom there are serious grounds for believing that they will commit or have committed any such offence.
The designated authorities of the EU countries may request the comparison of fingerprint data with those stored in the Central System for law enforcement purposes only on condition that the request for comparison is connected to a person who is the victim of a terrorist offence or of other serious criminal offence.
The designated authorities of the EU countries may request the comparison of fingerprint data with those stored in the Central System for law enforcement purposes only on condition that the data subject is not a minor.
The designated authorities of the EU countries may request the comparison of fingerprint data with those stored in the Central System for law enforcement purposes only on condition that the data subject is not a beneficiary of international protection.
The designated authorities of the EU countries may request the comparison of fingerprint data with those stored in the Central System for law enforcement purposes only on condition that the data subject has not been granted citizenship of an EU country.
The designated authorities of the EU countries may request the comparison of fingerprint data with those stored in the Central System for law enforcement purposes only on condition that the data subject has not been granted a residence permit in an EU country.
The designated authorities of the EU countries may request the comparison of fingerprint data with those stored in the Central System for law enforcement purposes only on condition that the data subject has not been granted refugee status or has not been granted subsidiary protection in an EU country.
The designated authorities of the EU countries may request the comparison of fingerprint data with those stored in the Central System for law enforcement purposes only on condition that the data



Summary 107:




Summary 108:
 Accelerated phasing-in of double-hull requirements for single-hull tankers
Accelerated phasing-in of double-hull requirements for single-hull tankers
Oil tankers are divided into three categories according to their tonnage, construction and age. All these categories, including the lowest one, Category 3, are important for trade within the EU.
The purpose of this regulation is to establish an accelerated phasing-in scheme for the application of the double-hull or equivalent design requirements of MARPOL 73/78 to single-hull oil tankers, and to ban the transport to or from ports of the Member States of heavy grade oil in single-hull oil tankers.
Scope
The regulation applies to oil tankers of 5 000 tonnes deadweight and above:
—
which fly the flag of a Member State;
—
irrespective of their flag, which enter or leave a port or offshore terminal or anchor in an area under the jurisdiction of a Member State.
For the purposes of Article 4(3), this regulation shall apply to oil tankers of 600 tonnes deadweight and above.
The regulation does not apply to any warship, naval auxiliary or other ship, owned or operated by a State and used, for the time being, only on government non-commercial service.
Definitions
For the purpose of this regulation, the following definitions apply:
—
‘MARPOL 73/78’ means the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, 1973, as amended by the Protocol of 1978 relating thereto, in their up-to-date versions;
—
‘oil tanker’ means an oil tanker as defined in Regulation 1.5 of Annex I to MARPOL 73/78;
—
‘deadweight’ means deadweight as defined in Regulation 1.23 of Annex I to MARPOL 73/78;
—
‘Category 1 oil tanker’ means an oil tanker of 20 000 tonnes deadweight or above and carrying crude oil, fuel oil, heavy diesel oil or lubricating oil as cargo or of 30 000 tonnes deadweight or above and carrying oil other than the above and which does not comply with the requirements in Regulations 18.1 to 18.9, 18.12 to 18.15, 30.4, 33.1, 33.2, 33.3, 35.1, 35.2 and 35.3 of Annex I to MARPOL 73/78;
—
‘Category 2 oil tanker’ means an oil tanker of 20 000 tonnes deadweight or above and carrying crude oil, fuel oil, heavy diesel oil or lubricating oil as cargo or of 30 000 tonnes deadweight or above and carrying oil other than the above and which complies with the requirements in Regulations 18.1 to 18.9, 18.12 to 18.15, 30.4, 33.1, 33.2, 33.3, 35.1, 35.2 and 35.3 of Annex I to MARPOL 73/78 and is fitted with segregated ballast tanks protectively located (SBT/PL);
—
‘Category 3 oil tanker’ means an oil tanker of 5 000 tonnes deadweight or above but less than that specified in points (4) and (5);
—
‘single-hull oil tanker’ means an oil tanker which does not comply with the double-hull or equivalent design requirements in Regulations 19 and 28.6 of Annex I to MARPOL 73/78;
—
‘double-hull oil tanker’ means an oil tanker:
—
of 5 000 tonnes deadweight or above, complying with the double-hull or equivalent design requirements in Regulations 19 and 28.6 of Annex I to MARPOL 73/78 or with the requirements in Regulation 20.1.3 thereof; or
—
of 600 tonnes deadweight or above but less than 5 000 tonnes deadweight, fitted with double-bottom tanks or spaces complying with Regulation 19.6.1 of Annex I to MARPOL 73/78 and wing tanks or spaces arranged in accordance with Regulation 19.3.1 thereof and complying with the requirement as to distance w in Regulation 19.6.2 thereof;
—
‘age’ means the age of the ship, expressed in number of years from its date of delivery;
—
‘heavy diesel oil’ means diesel oil as defined in Regulation 20 of Annex I to MARPOL 73/78;
—
‘fuel oil’ means heavy distillates of crude oil or residues therefrom or blends of such materials as defined in Regulation 20 of Annex I to MARPOL 73/78;
—
‘heavy grade oil’ means:
—
crude oils of a density at 15 °C of over 900 kg/m3 (corresponding to an API grade of less than 25,7);
—
oils other than crude oils and of a density at 15 °C of over 900 kg/m3 or a kinematic viscosity at 50 °C of over 180 mm2/s (corresponding to a kinematic viscosity of over 180 cSt);
—
bitumen and tar and emulsions thereof.
Compliance with the double-hull or equivalent design requirements by single-hull oil tankers
No oil tanker shall be allowed to operate under the flag of a Member State, nor shall any oil tanker, irrespective of its flag, be allowed to enter into ports or offshore terminals under the jurisdiction of a Member State unless such tanker is a double-hull oil tanker.
Notwithstanding the above, oil tankers of Category 2 or Category 3 which are equipped only with double bottoms or double sides not used for the transport of oil and extending for the whole length of the cargo tank, or with double-hulled spaces not used for the transport of oil and extending for the whole length of the cargo tank, but which do not meet the conditions for exemption from the provisions of Regulation 20.1.3 of Annex I to MARPOL 73/78, may continue to be operated, but not beyond the anniversary of the date of delivery of the ship in the year 2015 or the date on which the ship reaches the age of 25 years from its date of delivery, whichever is the sooner.
No oil tanker carrying heavy grade oil shall be allowed to fly the flag of a Member State unless such tanker is a double-hull oil tanker.
No oil tanker carrying heavy grade oil, irrespective of its flag, shall be allowed to enter or leave ports or offshore terminals or to anchor in areas under the jurisdiction of a Member State, unless such tanker is a double-hull oil tanker.
Oil tankers operated exclusively in ports and inland navigation may be exempted from paragraph 3 provided that they are duly certified under inland waterway legislation.
Compliance with the Condition Assessment Scheme
Irrespective of its flag, a single-hull oil tanker above 15 years of age shall not be allowed to enter or leave ports or offshore terminals or anchor in areas under the jurisdiction of a Member State unless such tanker complies with the Condition Assessment Scheme referred to in Article 



Summary 109:
 The European Supervisory Authority (European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority)
SUMMARY
WHAT DOES THIS REGULATION DO?
It sets up the European Supervisory Authority (European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority) (EIOPA) as part of the European System of Financial Supervisors (ESFS).
The ESFS consists of 3 European Supervisory Authorities (ESAs), namely:
the European Supervisory Authority (European Banking Authority);
the European Supervisory Authority (European Securities and Markets Authority);
the European Supervisory Authority (European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority).
The European Systemic Risk Board (ESRB) is also part of the ESFS.
KEY POINTS
The ESFS aims to improve the functioning of the financial system and the internal market, in particular by ensuring a high, effective and consistent level of regulation and supervision taking account of the varying interests of all Member States and the different nature of financial institutions.
The ESFS is based on the principle of ‘one rule book for the single market’.
The ESFS also aims to prevent regulatory arbitrage, guarantee a level playing field, strengthen international supervisory coordination and provide advice to the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission.
The ESFS consists of 3 European Supervisory Authorities (ESAs), namely:
the European Supervisory Authority (European Banking Authority);
the European Supervisory Authority (European Securities and Markets Authority);
the European Supervisory Authority (European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority).
The European Systemic Risk Board (ESRB) is also part of the ESFS.
The European Supervisory Authority (European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority) (EIOPA) is the competent authority for the insurance and occupational pensions sectors.
The European Supervisory Authority (European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority) (EIOPA) is in charge of:
promoting the stability of the financial system;
monitoring and assessing risks and vulnerabilities in the financial sector;
fostering the convergence of supervisory practices;
coordinating the supervisory activities of the competent authorities;
fostering the convergence of supervisory practices;
issuing guidelines and recommendations;
issuing binding decisions.
The European Supervisory Authority (European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority) (EIOPA) is also in charge of:
monitoring and assessing risks and vulnerabilities in the financial sector;
fostering the convergence of supervisory practices;
coordinating the supervisory activities of the competent authorities;
issuing guidelines and recommendations;
issuing binding decisions.
The European Supervisory Authority (European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority) (EIOPA) is in charge of:
monitoring and assessing risks and vulnerabilities in the financial sector;
fostering the convergence of supervisory practices;
coordinating the supervisory activities of the competent authorities;
issuing guidelines and recommendations;
issuing binding decisions.
The European Supervisory Authority (European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority) (EIOPA) is in charge of:
monitoring and assessing risks and vulnerabilities in the financial sector;
fostering the convergence of supervisory practices;
coordinating the supervisory activities of the competent authorities;
issuing guidelines and recommendations;
issuing binding decisions.
The European Supervisory Authority (European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority) (EIOPA) is in charge of:
monitoring and assessing risks and vulnerabilities in the financial sector;
fostering the convergence of supervisory practices;
coordinating the supervisory activities of the competent authorities;
issuing guidelines and recommendations;
issuing binding decisions.
The European Supervisory Authority (European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority) (EIOPA) is in charge of:
monitoring and assessing risks and vulnerabilities in the financial sector;
fostering the convergence of supervisory practices;
coordinating the supervisory activities of the competent authorities;
issuing guidelines and recommendations;
issuing binding decisions.
The European Supervisory Authority (European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority) (EIOPA) is in charge of:
monitoring and assessing risks and vulnerabilities in the financial sector;
fostering the convergence of supervisory practices;
coordinating the supervisory activities of the competent authorities;
issuing guidelines and recommendations;
issuing binding decisions.
The European Supervisory Authority (European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority) (EIOPA) is in charge of:
monitoring and assessing risks and vulnerabilities in the financial sector;
fostering the convergence of supervisory practices;
coordinating the supervisory activities of the competent authorities;
issuing guidelines and recommendations;
issuing binding decisions.
The European Supervisory Authority (European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority) (EIOPA) is in charge of:
monitoring and assessing risks and vulnerabilities in the financial sector;
fostering the convergence of supervisory practices;
coordinating the supervisory activities of the competent authorities;
issuing guidelines and recommendations;
issuing binding decisions.
The European Supervisory Authority (European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority) (EIOPA) is in charge of:
monitoring and assessing risks and vulnerabilities in the financial sector;
fostering the convergence of supervisory practices;
coordinating the supervisory activities of the competent authorities;
issuing guidelines and recommendations;
issuing binding decisions.
The European Supervisory Authority (European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority) (EIOPA) is in charge of:
monitoring and assessing risks and vulnerabilities in the financial sector;
fostering the convergence of supervisory practices;
coordinating the supervisory activities of the competent authorities;
issuing guidelines and recommendations;
issuing binding decisions.
The European Supervisory Authority (European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority) (EIOPA) is in charge of:
monitoring and assessing risks and vulnerabilities in the financial sector;
fostering the convergence of supervisory practices;
coordinating the supervisory activities of the competent authorities;
issuing guidelines and recommendations;
issuing binding decisions.
The European Supervisory Authority (European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority) (EIOPA) is in charge of:
monitoring and assessing risks and vulnerabilities in the financial sector;
fostering the convergence of supervisory practices;
coordinating the supervisory activities of the competent authorities;
issuing guidelines and recommendations;
issuing binding decisions.
The European Supervisory Authority (European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority) (EIOPA) is in charge of:
monitoring and assessing risks and vulnerabilities in the financial sector;
fostering the convergence of supervisory practices;
coordinating the supervisory activities of the competent authorities;
issuing guidelines and recommendations;
issuing binding decisions.
The European Supervisory Authority (European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority) (EIOPA) is in charge of:
monitoring and assessing risks and vulnerabilities in the financial sector;
fostering the convergence of supervisory practices;
coordinating the supervisory activities of the competent authorities;
issuing guidelines and recommendations;
issuing binding decisions.
The European Supervisory Authority (European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority) (EIOPA) is in charge of:
monitoring and assessing risks and vulnerabilities in the financial sector;
fostering the convergence of supervisory practices;
coordinating the supervisory activities of the competent authorities;
issuing guidelines and recommendations;
issuing binding decisions.
The European Supervisory Authority (European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority) (EIOPA) is in charge of:
monitoring and assessing risks and vulnerabilities in the financial



Summary 110:
 EU rules on free movement of workers
EU rules on free movement of workers
SUMMARY
WHAT DOES THIS REGULATION DO?
It codifies Regulation (EEC) No 1612/68, which established the rules on free movement of workers within the EU.
KEY POINTS
Workers’ right to free movement
National workers of the EU have the right to take up employment in another EU country. They also have the right to pursue activities as employed persons.
The right to free movement of workers within the EU does not apply to the category of workers referred to in the Treaty establishing the European Atomic Energy Community (EURATOM Treaty) which deal with eligibility for skilled employment in the field of nuclear energy. Nevertheless, this Regulation shall apply to the category of workers referred to in the first subparagraph and to members of their families in so far as their legal position is not governed by the EURATOM Treaty or measures.
Conditions for exercising the right to free movement
The right to free movement of workers is exercised under certain conditions, including the following:
equal treatment with nationals of the host country;
right to take up an activity as an employed person;
right to pursue the activity of their choice;
right to take up available employment in the host country with the same priority as nationals of that country;
right to eligibility for vocational training;
right to membership of trade unions and the exercise of rights attaching thereto;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to the same social and tax advantages as nationals of the host country;
right to access to housing and ownership of housing;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and retraining centres;
right to access to vocational training and



Summary 111:
 Regulation (EC) No 1005/2009 on substances that deplete the ozone layer
Regulation (EC) No 1005/2009 on substances that deplete the ozone layer (recast)
SUMMARY
WHAT DOES THIS REGULATION DO?
It sets out rules on the production, import, export, placing on the market, use, recovery, recycling, reclamation and destruction of substances that deplete the ozone layer, on the reporting of information related to those substances and on the import, export, placing on the market and use of products and equipment containing or relying on those substances.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to controlled substances, new substances and products and equipment containing or relying on controlled substances.
The production, import, export, placing on the market and use of controlled substances and new substances are prohibited.
By way of derogation from these prohibitions, controlled substances may be produced, placed on the market and used as feedstock or as process agents.
The placing on the market and use of products and equipment containing or relying on controlled substances is prohibited, with the exception of products and equipment for which the use of the respective controlled substance is authorised in accordance with the regulation.
The placing on the market of products and equipment containing or relying on controlled substances is prohibited, with the exception of products and equipment for which the use of the respective controlled substance is authorised in accordance with the regulation.
The production of controlled substances is prohibited.
The placing on the market and use of controlled substances are prohibited.
By way of derogation from Articles 4 and 5, controlled substances may be produced, placed on the market and used as feedstock.
By way of derogation from Articles 4 and 5, controlled substances may be produced, placed on the market and used as process agents.
By way of derogation from Articles 5 and 6, controlled substances and products and equipment containing or relying on controlled substances may be placed on the market for destruction within the Community in accordance with the requirements for destruction referred to in Article 22(1).
By way of derogation from Articles 5 and 6, controlled substances may be produced, placed on the market and used as feedstock.
By way of derogation from Articles 5 and 6, controlled substances may be produced, placed on the market and used as process agents.
By way of derogation from Articles 5 and 6, controlled substances and products and equipment containing or relying on controlled substances may be placed on the market for destruction within the Community in accordance with the requirements for destruction referred to in Article 22(1).
By way of derogation from Articles 5 and 6, controlled substances may be produced, placed on the market and used as feedstock.
By way of derogation from Articles 5 and 6, controlled substances may be produced, placed on the market and used as process agents.
By way of derogation from Articles 5 and 6, controlled substances and products and equipment containing or relying on controlled substances may be placed on the market for destruction within the Community in accordance with the requirements for destruction referred to in Article 22(1).
By way of derogation from Articles 5 and 6, controlled substances may be produced, placed on the market and used as feedstock.
By way of derogation from Articles 5 and 6, controlled substances may be produced, placed on the market and used as process agents.
By way of derogation from Articles 5 and 6, controlled substances and products and equipment containing or relying on controlled substances may be placed on the market for destruction within the Community in accordance with the requirements for destruction referred to in Article 22(1).
By way of derogation from Articles 5 and 6, controlled substances may be produced, placed on the market and used as feedstock.
By way of derogation from Articles 5 and 6, controlled substances may be produced, placed on the market and used as process agents.
By way of derogation from Articles 5 and 6, controlled substances and products and equipment containing or relying on controlled substances may be placed on the market for destruction within the Community in accordance with the requirements for destruction referred to in Article 22(1).
By way of derogation from Articles 5 and 6, controlled substances may be produced, placed on the market and used as feedstock.
By way of derogation from Articles 5 and 6, controlled substances may be produced, placed on the market and used as process agents.
By way of derogation from Articles 5 and 6, controlled substances and products and equipment containing or relying on controlled substances may be placed on the market for destruction within the Community in accordance with the requirements for destruction referred to in Article 22(1).
By way of derogation from Articles 5 and 6, controlled substances may be produced, placed on the market and used as feedstock.
By way of derogation from Articles 5 and 6, controlled substances may be produced, placed on the market and used as process agents.
By way of derogation from Articles 5 and 6, controlled substances and products and equipment containing or relying on controlled substances may be placed on the market for destruction within the Community in accordance with the requirements for destruction referred to in Article 22(1).
By way of derogation from Articles 5 and 6, controlled substances may be produced, placed on the market and used as feedstock.
By way of derogation from Articles 5 and 6, controlled substances may be produced, placed on the market and used as process agents.
By way of derogation from Articles 5 and 6, controlled substances and products and equipment containing or relying on controlled substances may be placed on the market for destruction within the Community in accordance with the requirements for destruction referred to in Article 22(1).
By way of derogation from Articles 5 and 6, controlled substances may be produced, placed on the market and used as feedstock.
By way of derogation from Articles 5 and 6, controlled substances may be produced, placed on the market and used as process agents.
By way of derogation from Articles 5 and 6, controlled substances and products and equipment containing or relying on controlled substances may be placed on the market for destruction within the Community in accordance with the requirements for destruction referred to in Article 22(1).
By way of derogation from Articles 5 and 6, controlled substances may be produced, placed on the market and used as feedstock.
By way of derogation from Articles 5 and 6, controlled substances may be produced, placed on the market and used as process agents.
By way of derogation from Articles 5 and 6, controlled substances and products and equipment containing or relying on controlled substances may be placed on the market for destruction within the Community in accordance with the requirements for destruction referred to in Article 22(1).
By way of derogation from Articles 5 and 6, controlled substances may be produced, placed on the market and used as feedstock.
By way of derogation from Articles 5 and 6, controlled substances may be produced, placed on the market and used as process agents.
By way of derogation from Articles 5 and 6, controlled substances and products and equipment containing or relying on controlled substances may be placed on the market for destruction within the Community



Summary 112:
 The European Environment Agency (EEA)
The European Environment Agency (EEA) is the Community's central institution for environmental information. It collects, analyses and disseminates environmental data and information. The EEA also works to improve the availability of environmental information in the Community and stimulates the development of environmental information and observation networks.
ACT
Regulation (EC) No 401/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 April 2009 on the European Environment Agency and the European Environment Information and Observation Network
KEY POINTS
The EEA is the Community's central institution for environmental information. It collects, analyses and disseminates environmental data and information. The EEA also works to improve the availability of environmental information in the Community and stimulates the development of environmental information and observation networks.
Tasks
The EEA's tasks include:
providing the Community and the Member States with objective, reliable and comparable information at European level enabling them to take the requisite measures to protect the environment, to assess the results of such measures and to ensure that the public is properly informed about the state of the environment;
providing the Community and the Member States with the necessary technical and scientific support;
establishing, in cooperation with the Member States, and coordinating the Network referred to in Article 4 of the Regulation; in this context, the EEA is responsible for the collection, processing and analysis of data, in particular in the fields referred to in Article 3 of the Regulation;
providing the Community and the Member States with the objective information necessary for framing and implementing sound and effective environmental policies; to that end, in particular to provide the Commission with the information that it needs to be able to carry out successfully its tasks of identifying, preparing and evaluating measures and legislation in the field of the environment;
assisting the monitoring of environmental measures through appropriate support for reporting requirements (including through involvement in the development of questionnaires, the processing of reports from Member States and the distribution of results), in accordance with its multiannual work programme and with the aim of coordinating reporting;
advising individual Member States, upon their request and where this is consistent with the EEA's annual work programme, on the development, establishment and expansion of their systems for the monitoring of environmental measures, provided such activities do not endanger the fulfilment of the other tasks established by this Article; such advice may also include peer reviews by experts at the specific request of Member States;
recording, collating and assessing data on the state of the environment, to draw up expert reports on the quality, sensitivity and pressures on the environment within the territory of the Community, to provide uniform assessment criteria for environmental data to be applied in all Member States, to develop further and maintain a reference centre of information on the environment; the Commission shall use this information in its task of ensuring the implementation of Community legislation on the environment;
helping to ensure that environmental data at European level are comparable and, if necessary, to encourage by appropriate means improved harmonisation of methods of measurement;
promoting the incorporation of European environmental information into international environment monitoring programmes such as those established by the United Nations and its specialised agencies;
publishing a report on the state of, trends in and prospects for the environment every five years, supplemented by indicator reports focusing upon specific issues;
stimulating the development and application of environmental forecasting techniques so that adequate preventive measures can be taken in good time;
stimulating the development of methods of assessing the cost of damage to the environment and the costs of environmental preventive, protection and restoration policies;
stimulating the exchange of information on the best technologies available for preventing or reducing damage to the environment;
cooperating with the bodies and programmes referred to in Article 15 of the Regulation;
ensuring the broad dissemination of reliable and comparable environmental information, in particular on the state of the environment, to the general public and, to this end, to promote the use of new telematics technology for this purpose;
supporting the Commission in the process of exchange of information on the development of environmental assessment methodologies and best practice;
assisting the Commission in the diffusion of information on the results of relevant environmental research and in a form which can best assist policy development.
The EEA's activities are based on the priority areas established in Article 3(2) of the Regulation. These include, in particular:
air quality and atmospheric emissions;
water quality, pollutants and water resources;
the state of the soil, of the fauna and flora, and of biotopes;
land use and natural resources;
waste management;
noise emissions;
chemical substances which are hazardous for the environment;
coastal and marine protection.
The EEA may also cooperate in the exchange of information with other bodies, including with the European Network for the Implementation and Enforcement of Environmental Law (IMPEL Network).
The EEA's legal personality is granted under Article 7 of the Regulation. It enjoys in all the Member States the most extensive legal capacity accorded to legal persons under their laws.
Structure
The EEA is headed by an Executive Director appointed by the Management Board on a proposal from the Commission for a period of five years, which shall be renewable.
The EEA's tasks are defined in Articles 12 and 13 of the Regulation. These include, in particular:
implementing the budget of the EEA;
recruiting, appointing and dismissing staff;
performing the tasks referred to in Article 8(4) and (5) of the Regulation;
recruiting the EEA's scientific staff;
obtaining the opinion of the scientific committee, referred to in Article 10 of the Regulation, for the purposes of recruitment of the EEA's scientific staff.
The EEA's tasks are also defined in Articles 14, 15, 16, 17, 18 and 19 of the Regulation. These include, in particular:
cooperating with other Community bodies and programmes, in particular with the Joint Research Centre, the Statistical Office of the European Communities (Eurostat) and the Community's environmental research and development programmes;
cooperating actively with those institutions in countries which are not members of the Community which can provide data, information and expertise, methodologies of data collection, analysis and assessment which are of mutual interest and which are necessary for the successful completion of the EEA's work;
cooperating with other bodies such as the European Space Agency, the Council of Europe and the International Energy Agency as well as the United Nations and its specialised agencies;
ensuring that the Agency's staff are subject to the Regulations and Rules applicable to officials and other servants of the European Communities;
ensuring that the contractual liability of the EEA is governed by the law applicable to the contract in question;
ensuring that the EEA is open to countries which are not members of the Community but which share the concern of the Community and the Member States for the objectives of the Agency under agreements concluded between them and the Community following the procedure in Article 300 of the Treaty.
The EEA's tasks are also defined in Articles 20 and 21 of the Regulation. These include, in particular:
the repeal of Regulation (EEC) No 1210/90, as amended by the Regulations listed in Annex II, is repealed;
this Regulation shall enter into force on the 20th day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
References
Act
Entry into force
Block 



Summary 113:
 Regulation (EC) No 1221/2009 on voluntary participation by organisations in a Community eco-management and audit scheme
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 1221/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the voluntary participation by organisations in a Community eco-management and audit scheme (EMAS)
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to promote continuous improvements in the environmental performance of organisations by the establishment and implementation of environmental management systems by organisations, the systematic, objective and periodic evaluation of the performance of such systems, the provision of information on environmental performance, an open dialogue with the public and other interested parties and the active involvement of employees in organisations and appropriate training.
KEY POINTS
The regulation establishes a Community eco-management and audit scheme (EMAS), allowing voluntary participation by organisations located inside or outside the European Union.
The objectives of EMAS are to:
promote continuous improvements in the environmental performance of organisations by the establishment and implementation of environmental management systems by organisations;
systematically, objectively and periodically evaluate the performance of such systems;
provide information on environmental performance;
establish an open dialogue with the public and other interested parties;
actively involve employees in organisations;
provide appropriate training.
The regulation defines the following terms:
environmental policy: the overall intentions and direction of an organisation relating to its environmental performance as formally expressed by top management including compliance with all applicable legal requirements relating to the environment and also a commitment to continuous improvement of environmental performance. It provides a framework for action and for the setting of environmental objectives and targets;
environmental performance: the measurable results of an organisation's management of its environmental aspects;
legal compliance: full implementation of applicable legal requirements, including permit conditions, relating to the environment;
environmental aspect: an element of an organisation's activities, products or services that has or can have an impact on the environment;
significant environmental aspect: an environmental aspect that has or can have a significant environmental impact;
direct environmental aspect: an environmental aspect associated with activities, products and services of the organisation itself over which it has direct management control;
indirect environmental aspect: an environmental aspect which can result from the interaction of an organisation with third parties and which can to a reasonable degree be influenced by an organisation;
environmental impact: any change to the environment, whether adverse or beneficial, wholly or partially resulting from an organisation's activities, products or services;
environmental review: an initial comprehensive analysis of environmental aspects, environmental impacts and environmental performance related to an organisation's activities, products and services;
environmental programme: a description of the measures, responsibilities and means taken or envisaged to achieve environmental objectives and targets and the deadlines for achieving the environmental objectives and targets;
environmental objective: an overall environmental goal, arising from the environmental policy, that an organisation sets itself to achieve, and which is quantified where practicable;
environmental target: a detailed performance requirement, arising from the environmental objectives, applicable to an organisation or parts thereof, and that needs to be set and met in order to achieve those objectives;
environmental management system: the part of the overall management system that includes the organisational structure, planning activities, responsibilities, practices, procedures, processes and resources for developing, implementing, achieving, reviewing and maintaining the environmental policy and managing the environmental aspects;
best environmental management practice: the most effective way to implement the environmental management system by organisations in a relevant sector and that can result in best environmental performance under given economic and technical conditions;
substantial change: any change in an organisation's operation, structure, administration, processes, activities, products or services that has or can have a significant impact on an organisation's environmental management system, the environment or human health;
internal environmental audit: a systematic, documented, periodic and objective evaluation of the environmental performance of an organisation, management system and processes designed to protect the environment;
auditor: an individual or group of individuals, belonging to an organisation itself or a natural or legal person external to that organisation, acting on behalf of that organisation, carrying out an assessment of, in particular, the environmental management system in place and determining conformity with the organisation's environmental policy and programme, including compliance with the applicable legal requirements relating to the environment;
environmental statement: the comprehensive information to the public and other interested parties regarding an organisation's:
structure and activities;
environmental policy and environmental management system;
environmental aspects and impacts;
environmental programme, objectives and targets;
environmental performance and compliance with applicable legal obligations relating to the environment;
updated environmental statement: the comprehensive information to the public and other interested parties containing updates of the last validated environmental statement, only with regard to an organisation's environmental performance and compliance with applicable legal obligations relating to the environment;
environmental verifier: a conformity assessment body as defined in Regulation (EC) No 765/2008 or any association or group of such bodies, which has obtained accreditation in accordance with this Regulation; or
any natural or legal person, or any association or group of such persons, which has obtained a licence to carry out verification and validation in accordance with this Regulation;
organisation: a company, corporation, firm, enterprise, authority or institution, located inside or outside the European Union, or part or combination thereof, whether incorporated or not, public or private, which has its own functions and administration;
site: a distinct geographic location under the management control of an organisation covering activities, products and services, including all infrastructure, equipment and materials; a site is the smallest entity to be considered for registration;
cluster: a group of independent organisations related to each other by geographical proximity or business activities jointly implementing the environmental management system;
verification: the conformity assessment process carried out by an environmental verifier to demonstrate whether an organisation's environmental review, environmental policy, environmental management system and internal environmental audit and its implementation fulfil the requirements of this Regulation;
validation: the confirmation by the environmental verifier who carried out the verification, that the information and data in an organisation's environmental statement and updated environmental statement are reliable, credible and correct and meet the requirements of this Regulation;
environmental performance indicator: a specific expression that allows measurement of an organisation's environmental performance;
small organisations: micro, small and medium-sized enterprises as defined in Recommendation 2003/361/EC of 6 May 2003 concerning the definition of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises; or
local authorities governing less than 10 000 inhabitants or other public authorities employing fewer than 250 persons and having an annual budget not exceeding EUR 50 million, or an annual balance sheet not exceeding EUR 43 million, including all of the following:
government or other public administrations, or public advisory bodies at national, regional or local level;
natural or legal persons performing public administrative functions under national law, including specific duties, activities or services in relation to the environment; and
natural or legal persons having public responsibilities or functions, or providing public services, relating to the environment under the control of a body or person referred to in point (b);
Accreditation Body: a national accreditation body appointed pursuant to Article 4 of Regulation (EC) No 765/2008 which is responsible for the accreditation and supervision of environmental verifiers;
Licensing Body: a body appointed in accordance with Article 5(2) of Regulation (EC) No 765/2008 which is responsible for issuing licences to, and for supervising, environmental verifiers.
WHAT DOES THE REGULATION REQUIRE?
Organisations wishing to



Summary 114:
 
Definition, description, labelling and protection of geographical indications of spirit drinks
Definition, description, labelling and protection of geographical indications of spirit drinks
The purpose of this Regulation is to define the characteristics of spirit drinks, to describe, present and label them and to protect geographical indications of spirit drinks.
WHAT THIS REGULATION DOES?
It defines the characteristics of spirit drinks and sets out rules for their description, presentation and labelling.
It also establishes a procedure for the registration, cancellation and removal of geographical indications of spirit drinks.
KEY POINTS
What is a spirit drink?
A spirit drink is an alcoholic beverage intended for human consumption with particular organoleptic qualities, with a minimum alcoholic strength of 15 % vol., produced by distillation from naturally fermented products or by the maceration or similar processing of plant materials in ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin and/or distillates of agricultural origin, and/or by the addition of flavourings, sugars or other sweetening products, agricultural products or foodstuffs to ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin and/or to distillates of agricultural origin and/or to spirit drinks.
The ethyl alcohol used in the production of spirit drinks and all of their components must not be of any origin other than agricultural.
What categories of spirit drinks are there?
Spirit drinks are classified into categories according to the definitions laid down in Annex II to the Regulation. These definitions are:
category 1: ‘gin’;
category 2: ‘vodka’;
category 3: ‘brandy’;
category 4: ‘whisky’;
category 5: ‘rum’;
category 6: ‘arrack’;
category 7: ‘aquavit’;
category 8: ‘schnapps’;
category 9: ‘schnaps’;
category 10: ‘brennvetin’;
category 11: ‘brennevin’;
category 12: ‘korn’;
category 13: ‘jägermeister’;
category 14: ‘anis’;
category 15: ‘fruit spirit drinks’;
category 16: ‘grappa’;
category 17: ‘pálinka’;
category 18: ‘crème de’;
category 19: ‘liqueur’;
category 20: ‘sambuca’;
category 21: ‘mint liqueur’;
category 22: ‘crema de’;
category 23: ‘crema de fruta’;
category 24: ‘crema de limon’;
category 25: ‘crema de naranja’;
category 26: ‘crema de mandarina’;
category 27: ‘crema de bergamota’;
category 28: ‘crema de pomelo’;
category 29: ‘crema de toronja’;
category 30: ‘crema de maracuyá’;
category 31: ‘crema de caimito’;
category 32: ‘liqueur’;
category 33: ‘cognac’;
category 34: ‘armagnac’;
category 35: ‘calvados’;
category 36: ‘marc’;
category 37: ‘armagnac’;
category 38: ‘armagnac’;
category 39: ‘french brandy’;
category 40: ‘calvados’;
category 41: ‘whisky’;
category 42: ‘rum’;
category 43: ‘liqueur’;
category 44: ‘cognac’;
category 45: ‘brandy’;
category 46: ‘brandy’.
Other spirit drinks which do not meet the requirements of categories 1 to 46 may be sold under the name ‘spirit drink’.
The names of spirit drinks may be supplemented by a geographical indication registered in Annex III to the Regulation.
Geographical indications
A geographical indication identifies a spirit drink as originating in the territory of a country, or a region or locality in that territory, where a given quality, reputation or other characteristic of that spirit drink is essentially attributable to its geographical origin.
The geographical indications registered in Annex III to the Regulation are:
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘Gin Holland’;
‘G



Summary 115:
 Regulation (EC) No 300/2008 on common rules in the field of civil aviation security
REGULATION (EC) No 300/2008 ON COMMON RULES IN THE FIELD OF CIVIL AVIATION SECURITY
WHAT DOES THIS REGULATION DO?
It sets out common rules and common basic standards on aviation security. It also establishes mechanisms for monitoring compliance.
KEY POINTS
The common basic standards for safeguarding civil aviation against acts of unlawful interference that jeopardise the security of civil aviation are set out in the Annex to the Regulation.
These standards may be supplemented by general measures designed to amend non-essential elements of the common basic standards.
Detailed measures for the implementation of the common basic standards and the general measures may include:
requirements and procedures for screening;
a list of prohibited articles;
requirements and procedures for access control;
requirements and procedures for the examination of vehicles, aircraft security checks and aircraft security searches;
decisions to recognise the equivalence of security standards applied in a third country;
requirements and procedures for security controls of air carrier mail and air carrier materials;
as regards in-flight supplies and airport supplies, procedures for the approval or designation of, and the obligations to be fulfilled by, regulated suppliers and known suppliers;
definition of critical parts of security restricted areas;
staff recruitment and training requirements;
special security procedures or exemptions from security controls;
technical specifications and procedures for approval and use of security equipment;
requirements and procedures concerning potentially disruptive passengers.
The Commission may adopt general measures, designed to amend non-essential elements of the common basic standards by supplementing them, in accordance with the regulatory procedure with scrutiny.
The Commission may also adopt detailed measures for the implementation of the common basic standards in accordance with the regulatory procedure.
The Commission may set criteria to allow Member States to derogate from the common basic standards and to adopt alternative security measures that provide an adequate level of protection on the basis of a local risk assessment.
Each Member State must draw up, apply and maintain a national civil aviation security programme.
Every airport operator, air carrier and entity applying aviation security standards must draw up, apply and maintain a security programme in order to comply both with this Regulation and with whichever national civil aviation security programme is applicable.
Every airport operator must draw up, apply and maintain an airport security programme.
Every air carrier must draw up, apply and maintain an air carrier security programme.
Every entity required under the national civil aviation security programme to apply aviation security standards must draw up, apply and maintain a security programme.
The Commission must conduct inspections, including unannounced inspections, in order to monitor the application by Member States of this Regulation and, as appropriate, to make recommendations to improve aviation security.
Every year the Commission must present a report to the European Parliament, the Council and the Member States informing them of the application of this Regulation and of its impact on improving aviation security.
As a general rule, the Commission must publish measures that have a direct impact on passengers. However, the following documents must be regarded as EU classified information within the meaning of Decision 2001/844/EC: measures and procedures as referred to in Articles 4(3), 4(4), 6(1) and 7(1), if containing sensitive security information; the Commission inspection reports and the answers of the appropriate authorities referred to in Article 15(3).
FROM WHEN DOES THE REGULATION APPLY?
It has applied since 7 May 2008.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Regulation (EC) No 300/2008
7.5.2008
31.12.2009
OJ L 97, 7.4.2008, pp. 72-79
RELATED DOCUMENTS
Council Decision 2008/649/EC of 9 July 2008 on the extension of the Community Aviation Security Programme to the airport of Gibraltar (OJ L 223, 24.8.2008, pp. 1-2).
Last updated: 30.08.2011



Summary 116:




Summary 117:
 EU military operation EUNAVFOR MED IRINI
EU military operation EUNAVFOR MED IRINI
SUMMARY
WHAT DOES THIS DECISION DO?
It establishes a military operation in the Mediterranean, aimed at preventing arms trafficking within its agreed Area of Operation and Area of Interest in accordance with UN arms embargo on Libya, including UNSCRs 1970 (2011) and 2292 (2016) and 2473 (2019). The operation shall also assist in the development of the capacities and in the training of the Libyan Coast Guard and Navy in law enforcement tasks at sea. The operation shall also contribute to the disruption of the business model of human smuggling and trafficking networks, in accordance with applicable international law, including the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea, any relevant UNSCRs, and international human rights law as applicable.
KEY POINTS
The operation shall be named EUNAVFOR MED IRINI.
The operation shall be launched for a period of 12 months and shall end on 31 March 2021.
The operation shall be carried out by a European Union (EU) Naval Force (EUNAVFOR) under the responsibility of the EU Operation Commander.
The EU Operation Commander shall be Rear Admiral Fabio AGOSTINI.
The EU Operation Headquarters shall be located in Rome, Italy.
The EU Operation Commander shall report regularly on the conduct of the operation, including its impact in the Area of Operation.
The operation shall contribute to preventing arms trafficking within its agreed Area of Operation and Area of Interest in accordance with UNSCRs 1970 (2011) and 2292 (2016) and 2473 (2019).
The operation shall also assist in the development of the capacities and in the training of the Libyan Coast Guard and Navy in law enforcement tasks at sea.
The operation shall also contribute to the disruption of the business model of human smuggling and trafficking networks, in accordance with applicable international law, including the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea, any relevant UNSCRs, and international human rights law as applicable.
The operation shall be launched for a period of 12 months and shall end on 31 March 2021.
The operation shall be carried out by a European Union (EU) Naval Force (EUNAVFOR) under the responsibility of the EU Operation Commander.
The EU Operation Commander shall be Rear Admiral Fabio AGOSTINI.
The EU Operation Headquarters shall be located in Rome, Italy.
The EU Operation Commander shall report regularly on the conduct of the operation, including its impact in the Area of Operation.
The operation shall contribute to preventing arms trafficking within its agreed Area of Operation and Area of Interest in accordance with UNSCRs 1970 (2011) and 2292 (2016) and 2473 (2019).
The operation shall also assist in the development of the capacities and in the training of the Libyan Coast Guard and Navy in law enforcement tasks at sea.
The operation shall also contribute to the disruption of the business model of human smuggling and trafficking networks, in accordance with applicable international law, including the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea, any relevant UNSCRs, and international human rights law as applicable.
The operation shall be launched for a period of 12 months and shall end on 31 March 2021.
The operation shall be carried out by a European Union (EU) Naval Force (EUNAVFOR) under the responsibility of the EU Operation Commander.
The EU Operation Commander shall be Rear Admiral Fabio AGOSTINI.
The EU Operation Headquarters shall be located in Rome, Italy.
The EU Operation Commander shall report regularly on the conduct of the operation, including its impact in the Area of Operation.
The operation shall contribute to preventing arms trafficking within its agreed Area of Operation and Area of Interest in accordance with UNSCRs 1970 (2011) and 2292 (2016) and 2473 (2019).
The operation shall also assist in the development of the capacities and in the training of the Libyan Coast Guard and Navy in law enforcement tasks at sea.
The operation shall also contribute to the disruption of the business model of human smuggling and trafficking networks, in accordance with applicable international law, including the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea, any relevant UNSCRs, and international human rights law as applicable.
The operation shall be launched for a period of 12 months and shall end on 31 March 2021.
The operation shall be carried out by a European Union (EU) Naval Force (EUNAVFOR) under the responsibility of the EU Operation Commander.
The EU Operation Commander shall be Rear Admiral Fabio AGOSTINI.
The EU Operation Headquarters shall be located in Rome, Italy.
The EU Operation Commander shall report regularly on the conduct of the operation, including its impact in the Area of Operation.
The operation shall contribute to preventing arms trafficking within its agreed Area of Operation and Area of Interest in accordance with UNSCRs 1970 (2011) and 2292 (2016) and 2473 (2019).
The operation shall also assist in the development of the capacities and in the training of the Libyan Coast Guard and Navy in law enforcement tasks at sea.
The operation shall also contribute to the disruption of the business model of human smuggling and trafficking networks, in accordance with applicable international law, including the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea, any relevant UNSCRs, and international human rights law as applicable.
The operation shall be launched for a period of 12 months and shall end on 31 March 2021.
The operation shall be carried out by a European Union (EU) Naval Force (EUNAVFOR) under the responsibility of the EU Operation Commander.
The EU Operation Commander shall be Rear Admiral Fabio AGOSTINI.
The EU Operation Headquarters shall be located in Rome, Italy.
The EU Operation Commander shall report regularly on the conduct of the operation, including its impact in the Area of Operation.
The operation shall contribute to preventing arms trafficking within its agreed Area of Operation and Area of Interest in accordance with UNSCRs 1970 (2011) and 2292 (2016) and 2473 (2019).
The operation shall also assist in the development of the capacities and in the training of the Libyan Coast Guard and Navy in law enforcement tasks at sea.
The operation shall also contribute to the disruption of the business model of human smuggling and trafficking networks, in accordance with applicable international law, including the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea, any relevant UNSCRs, and international human rights law as applicable.
The operation shall be launched for a period of 12 months and shall end on 31 March 2021.
The operation shall be carried out by a European Union (EU) Naval Force (EUNAVFOR) under the responsibility of the EU Operation Commander.
The EU Operation Commander shall be Rear Admiral Fabio AGOSTINI.
The EU Operation Headquarters shall be located in Rome, Italy.
The EU Operation Commander shall report regularly on the conduct of the operation, including its impact in the Area of Operation.
The operation shall contribute to preventing arms trafficking within its agreed Area of Operation and Area of Interest in accordance with UNSCRs 1970 (2011) and 2292 (2016) and 2473 (2019).
The operation shall also assist in the development of the capacities and in the training of the



Summary 118:
 
False and Authentic Documents Online (FADO) system
False and Authentic Documents Online (FADO) system
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THIS REGULATION?
It establishes the False and Authentic Documents Online (FADO) system containing information on authentic documents issued by EU countries, the European Union and third countries, such as third countries, territorial entities, international organisations and other entities subject to international law, and on false versions thereof.
The purpose of the FADO system is to contribute to the fight against document and identity fraud by sharing information on the security features of, and potential fraud characteristics in, authentic and false documents between the Member State authorities competent in the area of document fraud.
The purpose of the FADO system is also to contribute to the fight against document and identity fraud by sharing information with other actors, including the general public.
KEY POINTS
Scope and content of the FADO system
The FADO system contains information on travel, identity, residence and civil status documents, driving licences and vehicle licences issued by EU countries or the European Union, and on false versions thereof.
The FADO system may contain information on documents as referred to in the first subparagraph issued by third parties, such as third countries, territorial entities, international organisations and other entities subject to international law, and on false versions thereof.
The FADO system may contain information on other related official documents, in particular those used in support of applications for official documents, issued by EU countries and, where applicable, third parties, such as third countries, territorial entities, international organisations and other entities subject to international law, and on false versions thereof.
The following information is included in the FADO system:
information, including images, on authentic documents, and specimens thereof, and their security features;
information, including images, on false documents, whether forged, counterfeit or pseudo documents, and their fraud characteristics;
summaries of forgery techniques;
summaries of the security features of authentic documents; and
statistics on detected false documents.
The FADO system may also contain handbooks, contact lists, information on valid travel documents and their recognition by EU countries, recommendations on effective ways of detecting specific methods of falsification and other useful related information.
Responsibilities of the European Border and Coast Guard Agency (the ‘Agency’)
The Agency is responsible for ensuring the proper and reliable functioning of the FADO system and providing support to the competent Member State authorities in the detection of false documents.
The Agency is also responsible for entering in the FADO system in a timely and efficient manner the information obtained and guaranteeing the uniformity and quality of that information.
Access to the FADO system
The architecture of the FADO system provides users with different levels of access to information.
The following actors may obtain access to information stored in the FADO system in a limited manner:
EU institutions, bodies, offices and agencies, other than those referred to in point 2;
third parties, such as third countries, territorial entities, international organisations and other entities subject to international law;
private entities, such as airlines and other carriers.
The European Commission adopts delegated acts in accordance with Article 8 supplementing this Regulation by establishing measures granting access to information stored in the FADO system to the actors listed in the previous paragraph. The delegated acts set out for the actors listed in the previous paragraph the part of the FADO system to which access is to be granted and any specific procedures and conditions that may be necessary, including the requirement to conclude an agreement between the Agency and a third party or a private entity as referred to in points 2 and 3.
Processing of personal data by the Agency
The Agency applies Regulation (EU) 2018/1725 of the European Parliament and of the Council when processing personal data under this Regulation. The Agency only processes personal data where such processing is necessary for the performance of its task of operating the FADO system.
As regards authentic documents, the FADO system only contains personal data included in the specimens of such documents or pseudonymised data.
As regards false documents, the FADO system only contains personal data to the extent they are necessary to describe or illustrate the fraud characteristics or the method of falsification of such documents.
The Agency ensures that technical and organisational measures, such as pseudonymisation, are in place in order to ensure that personal data are only processed to the extent strictly necessary for the purpose of operating the FADO system in line with the principle of data minimisation in a way which does not permit the identification of any natural person through the FADO system without using additional data.
FROM WHEN DOES THE REGULATION APPLY?
              
It applies from 15 July 2020.
BACKGROUND
              
Joint Action 98/700/JHA established the European Image Archiving System on False and Authentic Documents Online (FADO) within the General Secretariat of the Council. The FADO system was set up to facilitate the exchange of information on authentic documents and on known methods of falsification between Member State authorities. The FADO system provides for the electronic storage, rapid exchange and validation of information on information on authentic and false documents.
KEY TERMS
              
FADO: False and Authentic Documents Online.
MAIN DOCUMENTS
            
Regulation (EU) 2020/493 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 30 March 2020 on the False and Authentic Documents Online (FADO) system and repealing Council Joint Action 98/700/JHA (OJ L 107, 6.4.2020, pp. 1-6).
RELATED DOCUMENTS
            
Regulation (EU) 2019/1896 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 November 2019 on the European Border and Coast Guard and repealing Regulations (EU) No 1052/2013 and (EU) 2016/1624 (OJ L 295, 14.11.2019, pp. 1-78).
Council Regulation (EC) No 1683/95 of 29 May 1995 laying down a uniform format for visas (OJ L 164, 14.7.1995, pp. 20-30).
last update 23.04.2020



Summary 119:




