Summary 0:
EU rules on marketing communications for collective investment undertakings (UCITS) and collective investment funds (AIFs)
EU policies on marketing Communications for UCITS and AIFs
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 1286/2014 — marketing communications and notification procedures applicable to UCITS
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out rules on the marketing communications* and notifications* that collective investment firms* must send to investors.
It applies to:
alternative investment fund managers;
UCITS management companies, including any UCITS which has not designated a UCITS management company;
euVECA managers; and
EuSEF managers.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to marketing communications:
to investors;
to the general public;
in the context of pre-marketing.
EU countries must:
ensure that marketing communications are not misleading;
notify the management company within 10 working days of receipt of marketing communications;
provide the marketing company with a copy of the relevant national law, regulations and administrative provisions.
The marketing communications must contain:
a description of the fund’s assets and liabilities;
a summary of the fees or charges that managers may charge to investors for the services they provide;
information on the risks and benefits of investing in the fund;
an estimate of the amount of money that investors should expect to invest.
In addition, the regulation requires:
the marketing communications to be presented in a manner that is fair, clear and not misleading, and
the information to be provided in a language that is customary in the sphere of international finance;
the communication to investors to be accompanied by a description of how the fund is managed and how it is managed.
If a marketing communication is not accompanied by an explanation of the risks or benefits that investors may expect, the marketing communication must be amended.
Before a marketing communications can be published, the manager of a qualifying venture capital fund must ensure that it is adequately documented and that it has been authorised by the competent authorities of the EU country in which it is published.
Any subscription by professional investors to units or shares of a qualified social entrepreneurship fund, or of an AIF established as a result of the marketing, must be considered to be the result of marketing and shall be subject to the applicable notification procedures referred to in Article 16.
Prior notification must be provided to the management companies of any request to amend its marketing communications.
Where a management company does not comply with this regulation, it must inform the European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) of the reasons for its failure to comply with the regulation.
ESMA must develop draft implementing technical standards to determine the standard forms, templates and procedures for the publications and notifications under this regulation. It will submit those draft implementing standards to the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission by 2 February 2021.
Every second year, ESMA will submit a report to the EU countries on the implementation of this regulation and on the effects of national laws, regulations, administrative provisions governing marketing communications based also on the information received.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
   
It has applied since 31 December 2018. EU countries had to incorporate it into national law by 31 December 2019.
BACKGROUND
The European Investment Bank (EIB) is one of the largest investment firms in the world. It manages over €2 trillion in assets.
For more information, see:
‘UCITS marketing communications’ on the EIB's website.
MAIN DOCUMENT
 
Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 1095/2010 of 27 October 2010 on marketing communication for collective investments in collective investment undertaking undertakings and UCITS (OJ L 183, 30.10.2010, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (Euratom) no 1095 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
  �  Â   и   (Commission Implementing Regulation (EC) No 552/2014 of 27 November 2014 on marketing marketing communications in respect of collective investments* in collective investable undertakings, UCITS, AIFS, and EuSEFs, and repealing Council Directive 2002/92/EC and Council Directive 2011/61/EU on the supervision and supervision of investment communications in the field of UCITS. See consolidated version.
Directive 2002/93/EC of the European Union of the Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2002 on markets in financial instruments and amending Council Directives 2002/96/EC, 2002/98/EC (O J L 173, 12.6.2002, pp



Summary 1:
EU rules on market surveillance of non-compliant and unsafe products
EU rules covering non-compliance with EU law
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) 2018/852 on the enforcement of EU rules on the application of Union law
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out the rules for market surveillance* of products that are subject to EU law.
It aims to ensure that EU countries’ market surveillance authorities are able to ensure the proper enforcement of these rules.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to all products covered by the EU’s market surveillance rules. It does not apply to:
toys;
medical devices;
personal protective equipment;
electrical appliances;
telecommunications equipment.
EU countries must designate their own market surveillance authority and designate a single liaison office.
Market surveillance authorities must:
exercise their powers independently, impartially and without bias;
carry out their duties independently and impartially, without bias.
They must also cooperate with each other and cooperate with the European Commission.
The Commission must take appropriate enforcement measures when it becomes aware of a serious risk presented by a product that is imported from a non-EU country.
A European Union product compliance network (EUPCN) is set up to facilitate the exchange of information between EU countries on products subject to the regulation. It meets at regular intervals and, where necessary, at the reasoned request of the Commission or a Member State.
Cooperation between the Commission and the EU countries is encouraged.
Member States must draw up a national strategy for the implementation of the regulation by 16 July 2022. The strategy must include:
a description of the objectives of the surveillance authorities’ activities;
a list of the products that fall within the scope of this regulation;
the number of authorised representatives of the national surveillance authorities;
measures to be taken by the national authorities to ensure consistency in their activities.
In addition, the regulation sets up a European Union Product Compliance Network (UPCN), which meets regularly to exchange information on the compliance with the regulation and to assist in the cooperation between the authorities in different Member States.
FROM WHEN DOES IT APPLY?
From 16 July 2018.
BACKGROUND
The EU has adopted a number of measures to improve the functioning of the market surveillance system, including:
the creation of a European Commission Directorate-General for the Protection of Consumers’ Rights and the Enforcement of Trade in Goods,
the establishment of the EUPCN, and
the setting-up of the European Electronic Trading System (ETS).
For more information, see:
EU market surveillance (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Market surveillance authority: a national authority responsible for monitoring the compliance of products with EU legislation.
ACT
Council Regulation (EC) No 852/2018 of 16 June 2018 establishing the European Union Market Surveillance Authority (OJ L 183, 16.7.2018, pp. 1-8)
RELATED ACTS
Directive 2001/95/EC of the Parliament and of the Council of 18 June 2001 establishing a Union Product Code of Conduct (Official Journal L 140, 30.6.2001, p. 10)
Directives 2000/14/EC (37), 2006/42/EC and 2009/48/EC on the protection of consumers’ rights and the safety of toys (Official J L 90, 5.5.2006, pp.)
See consolidated version.
Commission Implementing Decision 2014/68/EU of 16 July 2014 on the establishment of an electronic trading system for goods and repealing Directive 2001/83/EC.
last update 04.02.2021



Summary 2:
Broadcasting organisations’ licensing of copyright and related rights for retransmission of their programmes in the EU (Directive 2018/13/EU on the licensing of the rights of broadcasting organisations for the transmission of television and radio programmes in other EU countries.
SUMMARY
WHAT DOES THIS DIRECTIVE DO?
It aims to ensure that broadcasting organisations are able to transmit their programmes to the public and to make available to them their programmes when providing ancillary online services.
It sets out the rules for the licensing and authorisation of copyright, related rights and other rights in the works or other protected subject matter used in the programmes, for example the rights in phonograms or performances.
KEY POINTS
The directive applies to:
the broadcasting organisations themselves;
collective management organisations (collective organisations) that manage the rights held by broadcasting organisations;
operators that distribute television or radio programmes to users;
the collective management organisations that manage retransmissions by cable of programmes from broadcasting organisations.
EU countries must ensure that:
all broadcasting organisations have the right to grant or refuse authorisation to a retransmitter of their programme to be transmitted in another EU country;
they have the obligation to exercise this right through a collective management organisation.
Collective management organisation must also ensure that the operator of the retransmitters’ licence fee is reasonable and adequate.
The operator of a retranmission service must also inform the European Commission of the terms and conditions under which it will apply for the authorisation.
Where the operator applies for authorisation, it must inform the Commission.
the Commission must assess the economic value of the licensing terms, including the value allocated to the means of transmission.
FROM WHEN DOES THE DIRECTIVE APPLACE INTO FORCE?
From 7 June 2018.
BACKGROUND
Directive 2014/26/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 May 2014 on the harmonisation of the laws of the Member States relating to the broadcasting of audiovisual works.
For more information, see:
Radio and television licensing (European Commission).
MAIN DOCUMENT
   
Directives 2018/12/EU and 2014/27/EU
1.
Council Directive (EU) 2017/865 of 27 May 2018 on the European Union’s broadcasting organisation licensing (OJ L 127 of 27.5.2018, pp. 1-8)
2.
DirectIVE 2014/25/EU (EU, Euratom)
3.
Communication from the Commission
4.
OJ C 125 of 21.4.2014
5.
Last updated: 27.07.2018



Summary 3:
Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 on the.eu top-level domain (ccTLD) and the.EU Multistakeholder Advisory Group (MAAG)
Regulation(EU) 2018/852 on the establishment of a.eu Top Level Domain Registry
SUMMARY
WHAT DOES THIS REGULATION DO?
It lays down the rules for the establishment and operation of a registry for the.eU Top Level (Top Level Domain) in the European Union (EU).
It sets out the conditions for its implementation, including the designation and characteristics of the registry.
It repeals and repeals Regulation (EC) No 874/2004.
KEY POINTS
The.eu TLD is one of the largest country code TLDs in the world. It is complementary to existing ccTLDs and is open to the global registration of generic.eu domains.
The registry is a not-for-profit organisation. It has its registered office, central administration and principal place of business within the territory of the EU.
Eligible registrars
The Commission designates a registry that meets the following criteria:
must be based in an EU country;
be established in the EU;
have a registered office in the country in which it is located;
is established in a non-EU country; and
must have a minimum number of domain names in the top level.eu domain.
A.eu registrar may reserve or register domain names considered necessary for its operational functions under the contract referred to in Article 8(4) of the regulation.
Registration and revocation
The registrar is responsible for revoking domain names that have been used in bad faith.
Registry and registry disputes
The regulation sets out a dispute resolution procedure for disputes with regard to domain names.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
This regulation applies from 13 October 2022.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Commission Implementing Regulation (EU):
13.1.2022
-
OJ L 347 of 13.10.2018
RELATED ACTS
Commission Delegated Regulation:
Decision No 552/2014/EU of 13 July 2014 on the registration of.eu.com domain names by the Commission and repealing Council Regulation No 733/2002
Commission Decision No 553/2014 of 13 October 2014 on.eu.com.com...
Council Decision No 496/2013 of 13 December 2013 on the creation of a multistakeholders advisory group for the implementation of the.eternal top level domain (ETL) and repealing Decision No 6/2013/EU.
Last updated: 27.05.2014



Summary 4:
The European Connectivity Fund (CEF) for the Digital Single Market
The European Cross-Border Connectivity Facility
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2018/1046 on the European Connecting Fund for the digital single market
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes the European Commission’s Connecting Europe Facility (the CEF), a European Union (EU) instrument for the development of European digital connectivity.
The CEF aims to support actions in the field of digital connectivity to improve the free movement of persons, goods, capital and services between EU countries.
KEY POINTS
Eligible actions
The following actions are eligible:
legal entities established in:
a Member State, including joint ventures;
a third country associated to the CEF; or
an overseas country or territory;
international organisations, if provided for in the work programmes, international organisations.
Awards
The award criteria for the selection of actions are based on the following criteria:
cost-benefit analysis;
energy generation costs;
system integration costs; and
environmental and security costs.
Cooperation between the participating Member States
The work programmes are implemented through work programmes and calls for proposals. The CEF is funded by the general budget of the EU.
EU countries may also participate on the basis of other legal instruments.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
   
It entered into force on 1 July 2018.
It runs until 31 December 2023.
BACKGROUND
It is one of the main instruments of the European Union's (EU), the other being the European Investment Bank (EIB) and the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund (EMF).
For more information, see:
European Connectivity fund (European Commission).
* KEY TERMS
* Connected Europe Facility: an instrument designed to provide financial support to projects of common interest in the area of the trans-European digital connectivity (e.g. smart grids).
MAIN DOCUMENT
 
  European Commission Regulation (EC) No 1046/2018 of 18 July 2018 establishing the European Community Connecting European Facility for the Development of European Digital Infrastructures (the European Connections Fund) (OJ L 183, 30.7.2018, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EU] 2018/1146 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
  Implementing act (EU-Euratom) No 541/2014/EU of the Council and of the Representatives of the Governments of the Member States of the Union amending Council Regulation (EUR) No 1296/2013, on the financial rules applicable to general budget, amending Regulations (EU: No 1303/2013) and (EU): No 1304/2013 (Official Journal L 348, 20.12.2013)
Commission Implementing Decision (EU/EU) No 283/2014 of 6 December 2014 establishing the EU-EUR-EEC-E-E (Official Document) No 652/2014 establishing the Community Connected European Infrastructure Fund (Official Decision No 653/2014) and repealing Council Decision No 966/2012 (Official Decision No 967/2012).
Council Decision (EC, EC, EC) No 972/2013 of 12 December 2013 establishing the Common European Infrastructure Facility (Official DOCUMENCES
Communication from the Commission to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee, the Committee of the Regions and the Committee on the Functioning of the Single European Market (COM(2013) 652 final, 28.11.2013).
Commission Delegated Regulation (CFSP) 2019/852 of 18 December 2019 establishing the common European Infrastructure Framework (Official Guidance) (Official Text).
last update 04.02.2021



Summary 5:
Removal of terrorist content on the internet
Removalling terrorist content online
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) 2019/849 on the removal of terrorist material on the Internet
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to ensure that hosting service providers and users’ trust in the online environment are protected against the dissemination of harmful terrorist content.
It sets out rules to prevent and combat the misuse of hosting services by terrorist groups and their supporters to disseminate terrorist content in order to spread their message, to radicalise and recruit followers, and to facilitate and direct terrorist activity.
KEY POINTS
Hosting service providers must:
ensure that their services are not used to facilitate or direct terrorist activities;
take all necessary measures to prevent, detect and remove terrorist content from their services.
They must also ensure that their removal orders are effective, proportionate and non-discriminatory.
Removal orders are issued by the competent authority of the EU country in which the hosting service provider is located. They must be issued in the form of a removal order and must be executed within 3 months of receipt of the decision and on an annual basis thereafter.
A contact point must be set up to deal with any request for removal. This contact point should serve only for operational purposes.
The competent authority must also inform the host service provider of any interference with an investigative interest (deconfliction) or any reason for not complying with the removal order.
If the host provider cannot comply with the order on grounds of force majeure or de facto impossibility not attributable to the hosting services, it must, without undue delay, inform the authority that issued the order of those grounds, using the template set out in Annex III.
EU countries must ensure that information about the contact point is made publicly available.
In addition, the competent authorities must be able to take into account the number of users in the EU and the impact of its services in disseminating terrorist content, as well as the safeguards put in place to address the misuse.
Where a host provider fails to comply with an order, it may be subject to sanctions, such as:
a ban on hosting services;
a restriction of access to its services for the duration of the order;
suspension of its hosting services for a period of time;
restriction of its ability to host or host other services that facilitate or facilitate terrorist activity;
imposition of sanctions for infringements of the regulation’s specific provisions.
Exemptions
The regulation does not apply to the following services:
mailing services, including emails or private messaging services, as defined in point (5) of Article 2 of Directive (EEC) 2018/1972 of the European Parliament and of the Council (see summary);
internet hosting services (e.g. social media hosting services);
online storage services (i.e. hosting services that hold data in the memory of a physical or virtual server);
web hosting services which store and host user-generated content;
social networking services (including hosting services).
The European Commission is empowered to adopt delegated acts to supplement this regulation with technical requirements for the electronic means to be used by competent authorities for the transmission of removal orders.
Penalties
The Commission may:
impose specific penalties for hosting services providers that fail to implement this regulation;
apply sanctions to host service providers that do not comply with its specific provisions;
introduce specific measures to address infringements.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULATIONS APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 January 2019.
BACKGROUND
The EU has adopted a number of measures to combat the spread of harmful online content. These include:
Directive (EC) No 596/2004 on the fight against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction (WMDs);
Regulations (EC, Euratom) No 852/2004 and (EC), No 853/2004 (see consolidated version).
For more information, see:
‘The fight against terrorism’ on the European Commission's website.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Commission Implementing Regulation (EU).
-
OJ L 136 of 1.3.2019
RELATED ACTS
Council Regulation (CFSP) No 609/2014 of 25 November 2014 on the protection of the rights of users of the internet against the spreading of harmful and offensive material and on the prevention of the spread, facilitating and direct dissemination of such material and amending Council Regulation (Euratom).
Commission Delegated Regulation (ECE) No 752/2014 on the enforcement of the Community action plan on combating the spread and diffusion of harmful, offensive and threatening material and repealing Council Decision No 594/2004.
Council Decision (ECB) No 952/2013 on the implementation of



Summary 6:
Framework Programme for Research and Innovation 2021-2027
Framework programme for research and innovation 2021-2020
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2018/1046 on the European Union’s framework programme for Research & Innovation
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out the rules governing the EU budget for Horizon Europe, the EU's main research and development (R&I) programme.
It aims to increase the EU’S investment in R&I through Horizon Europe.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The European Union (EU) is investing €8.5 billion in Horizon Europe for the period 2021–2027.
The programme is divided into 4 main objectives:
research and innovation (R & I):
science, technology, economic, environmental and societal impact (S&S);
environmental impact (e.g. climate-neutral and smart cities);
smart specialisation (i.e. smart specialisation).
Programme objectives
The main objectives of the programme are to:
promote research and technological innovation in the fields of science, technology and environmental impact (SSI);
contribute to the sustainable development of the EU economy and society;
improve the quality of life of people and the environment;
encourage the sharing of knowledge and skills between EU countries and regions;
support the development of innovative technologies and services.
Funding and transfers of resources
The EU countries’ contributions to Horizon Europe are covered by the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF and the European Social Fund for Innovation (SIFIDF), the European Investment Bank (SIB) and other financial instruments. The European Commission is responsible for administering the programme and for its implementation.
Procurement
EU countries must provide the European Commission with the necessary financial resources to finance the programme. The Commission, in consultation with the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions, may also provide financial support to the European Research Council (JRC).
The Commission may also use the European Innovation Mechanism (EIM) to provide the EU countries with the financial resources they need to implement their programmes. The EIM contributes to the overall budget of Horizon Europe 2020–2025.
In addition, the Commission may use the EIM to support the activities of the Joint Research Centre for Innovation, which supports research, innovation and technological development in the areas of climate change, smart cities, energy efficiency, mobility and sustainable development.
Monitoring and reporting
The Programme is monitored and monitored by the Commission, which is assisted by independent observers in the evaluation process, where applicable. It also publishes the results of its evaluations and the conclusions of its observations.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULATIONS APPLY?
   
 
It has applied since 1 January 2019.
BACKGROUND
The framework programme is part of the general EU budget.
For more information, see:
Horizon Europe (European Commission).
MAIN DOCUMENT
                  
Council Regulation (EU), Euratom, of 18 July 2018, on the Framework Programme for research & innovation (OJ L 183, 1.8.2019, pp. 1–50)
Successive amendments to Regulation (Euratom, Euratom) 2018–1046 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
  The European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2018, adopting Regulation (EC) No 541/2014/EU on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union, amending Regulations (EU and Euratom).
See consolidated version.
Commission Implementing Decision 2014/852/EU of 26 May 2014 on the establishment of the European Instrument for Innovation and Research (EIR) and repealing Regulations (EURATOM) No 966/2012 and (EVR) No 1291/2013.
last update 04.02.2021



Summary 7:
European Union satellite navigation and Earth observation programme (EU SST)
European Union satellites navigation and earth observation programme
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) 2018/1139 on the European Union Satellite Navigation and Earth Observation Programme
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes the EU’s European Union Space Agency (EUSATCOM).
It sets out the rules for the development and operation of the EU SST (European Union Navigation Satellite System).
KEY POINTS
The European Union SST is a multiannual programme designed to:
ensure that the EU has a leading position in the global satellite navigation market;
contribute to the development of the global Earth observation system of systems (GEO) and the Copernicus satellite navigation system (Copernicus);
provide a high level of interoperability, interoperability and standardisation in the areas of navigation, Earth observation and satellite communications;
ensuring the security of the systems and their services against cyber-attacks.
The EUSST is funded by the EU budget and is implemented by the European Commission. It is managed by the Agency for Space Technology (ASAT).
The Agency is responsible for:
developing and operating the EU-wide SST services;
providing technical assistance to the participating national authorities;
coordinating the development, operation and management of the SST.
It is assisted by the Security Accreditation Board, which is composed of experts from the European Space Agency and the European Centre for the Protection of Civil Aviation Safety (ECAS).
.
Its tasks include:
the design, development and implementation of the European satellite navigation systems (SST) and satellite communication services (GOVSAT) for the EU;
monitoring the performance of the system and its users;
designing and implementing the GOVATCOM Hub;
assisting the Commission in the implementation of GOVSatCOM activities;
advising the Commission and EU countries on the security and operational aspects of the programme.
In addition, the Agency:
provides the Commission with technical assistance in the field of SST;
covers the cost-reimbursement of contracts for the provision of services and technical assistance;
is responsible for the coordination of the activities of the contracting authorities.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULATIONS APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 January 2019.
BACKGROUND
The SST programme was established under Regulation (EC) No 552/2004 and its subsequent amendments.
For more information, see:
EU Satellites (European Commission).
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 1139/2018 of 7 January 2019 establishing the Union Satellits and Earth Observations Programme (OJ L 183, 8.2.2019, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (Euratom) 2018-1139 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
 
  Еганска грака  глакова   бакка
Regulations (EC, EC, EC and EC) No 996/2010, (EC), No 376/2014 and Directives 2014/30/EU and 2014/53/EU
Directive 2014/52/EU on the establishment of a European Union Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) and repealing Regulations (EC).
See consolidated version.
Commission Implementing Decision 2014/54/EU of 14 December 2014 on the creation of a Space Agency under the EU Space Agency.
Council Directive 2014/58/EU establishing a European Commission Space Agency, amending Regulations (EU), (EC and EC).
Council Decision (EU/2014/53 of 13 December 2014 establishing a Space Commission Space Centre.
See summary.
last update 04.02.2019



Summary 8:
EU programme for the period from 1 January 2021 to 31 December 2027 on the development of high-performance computing and artificial intelligence (HPC) and cybersecurity and trust (AI) and advanced digital skills (MFF 2021-2027)
EU programme to develop high-performing computing and cybersecurity (AI and trust)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2020/2093 establishing the European Union (EU) programme for a period of 7 years from 1 July 2021 to 1 January 2027
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes the EU’s High Performance Computing and Artificial Intelligence (AI & Trust) programme.
It sets out the objectives of the programme, which is funded by the multiannual financial framework laid down in Council Regulation (EU), Euratom, for its period from 2021 to 2027.
KEY POINTS
The programme has 5 interrelated specific objectives:
Specific Objective 1:
High Performance Computing
Artificial intelligence
Cybersecurity and Trust
advanced digital skills.
EU countries are encouraged to take the necessary steps to develop and implement innovative solutions to:
ensure the security and trust of the Union;
improve the quality of life of EU citizens;
enhance the competitiveness of the European digital economy;
develop innovative products and services.
The European Commission is responsible for implementing the programme. It is assisted by the European Digital Innovation Hub (EDI Hub).
The EU countries are responsible for selecting an additional EDI Hub in each year. The programme also supports the establishment of a European digital innovation centre in each EU country.
DATE OF ENI PROGRAMME ENTRY INTO FORCE
1.1. 2021
1 January 2021
2.2.2022.3.2027
OJ L 62 of 15.4.2019, pp. 1-8
3.1-3.5.2028
4.2-4.5-5.2020
5.6-6.2021.
OCTOBER 2021
7.1 January 2022-31.
Last updated: 27.07.2020



Summary 9:
EU SMEs’s internal market governance programme (SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) 2017/826 establishing the EU SMEs' Internal Market Governance Programme
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes a European Union (EU)-wide programme to improve the quality, visibility, transparency and reliability of EU statistics on the internal market.
KEY POINTS
SMEs are the engine of the EU economy. They contribute to growth, competitiveness and employment and it should continue benefitting all citizens and businesses equally.
The programme aims to:
improve the quality and transparency of EU internal market statistics;
promote fair competition and a level playing field for businesses, especially SMEs, and consumers;
ensure that EU countries’ official controls are being implemented, complied with and enforced, including in respect of imports;
support SMEs to team up with SMEs from non-EU countries;
facilitate the exchange of information and best practice between EU countries and the European Commission;
provide technical assistance and training to small and medium-sized enterprises (SME) in the field of trade and trade promotion;
contribute to the development of EU-wide information and communication technology (ICT) networks;
encourage SMEs and consumers to take advantage of the opportunities offered by the European standardisation of EU products and services;
increase the visibility and visibility of EU rules on trade in goods and services.
Objectives
The objectives of the programme include:
improving the quality of EU market surveillance authorities’ statistical systems;
establishing an EU-based system for trade surveillance authorities;
raising awareness of the importance of trade in agricultural products;
enhancing the role of SMEs in the EU market;
strengthening the capacity-building of European SMEs;
increasing the visibility, visibility and transparency in EU trade statistics.
Cooperation between the Commission and non-profit-making entities
EU countries must:
support the activities of the European SME Envoy Network;
cooperate with non-governmental organisations;
coordinate the actions of EU countries in the area of veterinary and phytosanitary emergency measures;
take the necessary measures to protect human health and the environment;
assist the Commission in implementing the programme.
Financing
The European Commission must adopt implementing acts establishing lower co-financing rates. The Commission may, if necessary, amend these to take account of technological developments in the fields of digitalisation, artificial intelligence, algorithms, big data, cybersecurity and forensic technology.
Eligible entities
The Commission may designate one or more entities as the sole beneficiaries. That entity may be:
a private body or a public body; or
a public body.
It may also designate two or more organisations as sole beneficiaries:
the European Commission or the European Parliament or the Council;
the EU countries or the Commission itself.
In addition, the Commission may grant grants to the following entities:
an EU country or the EU countries, the European Economic and Social Committee or the Committee of the Regions;
a non-government organisation;
an international organisation or the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
The regulation entered into force on 31 August 2017.
BACKGROUND
   
 
The EU has a long-term strategy to modernise and modernise its internal market, which aims to improve its quality and reliability. It is based on a number of objectives, including:
promoting fair competition, including at global level, and encouraging businesses to reap the benefits of the internal markets;
reducing barriers to trade and improving the transparency and quality of the information available to consumers.
For more information, see:
EU SME Governance programme (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Official market surveillance: a system of official controls carried out by EU countries to verify and monitor that relevant EU requirements are being complied with.
* Trade promotion: the system of trade promotion, in which EU countries organise trade fairs and market surveillance activities.
MAIN DOCUMENT
  Еганска банка   бълграка (OJ L 183, 31.7.2017, pp. 1-24)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EU, 2017/820 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 04.02.2019



Summary 10:
EU rules on the acquisition, possession and transfer of firearms (codified version) (SUMMARY OF:
Directive 2011/65/EU on the licensing of firearms
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DIRECTIVE?
   
 
It lays down rules on licensing and the transfer of arms and ammunition.
It aims to ensure that the acquisition and possession of firearms is governed by a single administrative procedure.
KEY POINTS
EU countries must:
ensure that firearms are only made available for civilian use and that they are accompanied by a licence;
issue a licence for each type of firearm and its essential components.
The directive applies to all types of firearms, including:
firearms intended for use by the armed forces;
weapons of war;
replicas of antique weapons;
recreational firearms;
military missiles and launchers;
firearm reproductions;
explosives and launchers.
Licences must be issued by the competent national authority of each EU country.
National authorities must ensure that:
the holder of a licence bears the unique marking, as provided for under paragraph 1, permitting identification of the transferring entity;
the transfer of a firearm or its essential component from government stocks to permanent civilian use is carried out in accordance with the law of the EU country in which it is being transferred;
transfer of firearms from one EU country to another is authorised by the authority of that country without the prior authorisation of the country in question.
In addition, EU countries may grant dealers the right to transfer firearms from their territory to a dealer established in another EU country without prior authorisations.
Dealers must inform each other and the European Commission of the national authorities responsible for transmitting and receiving information and for complying with the obligations set out in Article 16(4) of the directive.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS DIRECTIVE APPLY?
It has applied since 1 January 2012. EU countries had to incorporate it into national law by 1 January 2013.
BACKGROUND
The European Union (EU) has adopted a number of measures to protect the security of its citizens. These include:
rules on the registration of firearms and their essential components;
measures to prevent the illegal trade in firearms.
For more information, see:
Firearms (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Firearm: a firearm designed and manufactured to fire a shot, bullet or projectile by the action of a combustible propellant.
* Ammunition: a substance that can be fired by means of a fire extinguisher.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Council Directive 2011/35/EU
01.01.2012
1.1.2013
-
OJ L 183 of 1.1-2.2012.
RELATED ACTS
Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2011 on the harmonisation of laws relating to the manufacture, import and export of firearms for the internal market and repealing Council Directive 91/477/EEC (Codified version).
See consolidated version.
last update 04.02.2016



Summary 11:
Maritime transport: EU-wide reporting of customs and transit obligations
Maritime Transport: EU–wide reporting on customs and transport obligations
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) 2019/852 on the EU’s maritime transport data set (EMSWe)
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to improve the efficiency of the maritime transport sector and to reduce administrative burdens.
It sets up a single EU data set, known as the Maritime Information System for Trade and Transport Locations (EMW), to facilitate the exchange of information between EU countries.
KEY POINTS
EU countries must establish a maritime single window with one or more other EU countries to report on:
customs status of goods;
departure formalities;
electronic transport documents used for transit;
exit notification;
ex-export notification.
Each EU country must set up a maritime national single window for each of the following categories of reporting obligations:
exports;
transport formalities.
The European Commission must establish an electronic system for each category of reporting obligation. The electronic system must:
identify those data elements that are necessary for the application of those reporting obligations;
provide a common user registry and access management system;
ensure that each EU country has a single user registration by means of an existing Union registry with EU level recognition, federated user management and Union level user monitoring.
EU Member States must also establish a national single portal for each type of vessel.
National single windows must have a uniform internet address.
Member States must ensure that the national single windows are available to the public and that they wish to use for the reporting of their maritime transport obligations.
Reporting obligations must be reported to the European Maritime Safety Agency (EMSA) and the European Commission. Member States may also request the Commission to amend the data set on the basis of the reporting obligations contained in their national legislation and requirements. The Commission must justify its decision in writing to the Member States.
In addition, Member States are required to:
report to the Commission on the number and type of vessels that call at their ports;
report on the type and number of persons on board their ships;
assist the Commission with the collection and processing of data;
set up and maintain a database of all the information that ships must report to the EMSWe data set.
Data protection and confidentiality
The Commission must ensure the protection of personal data and the confidentiality of the information it collects. The data collected must be stored in a secure database and must not be used for any purpose other than the purpose for which it was originally intended.
Implementing acts
Each Member State must adopt an implementing act to implement the regulation by 15 August 2021. This implementing act must include:
the name and contact details of the port where the vessel is registered;
a description of the vessel and its port of registration;
the number of vessels registered in that port and the port of registry;
details of the number of passengers and crew;
information on the port and port facilities used.
FROM WHEN DOES THE REGULE APPLY?
The regulation applies from 15 August 2019. It repeals Directive 2010/65/EU.
BACKGROUND
The EU has adopted a number of implementing acts to modernise and streamline the EU maritime transport system, including:
Delegated Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2018/1725 on the harmonisation of the EU Maritime Single Window;
Directive 2014/40/EU on the interoperability of the electronic systems for the transmission of maritime information between Member States (see summary).
The main objectives of these implementing acts are:
to:
improve the efficiency and effectiveness of maritime transport;
reduce the administrative burden on Member States and the Commission;
to improve the quality of the data they collect; and
to reduce the administrative burdens on the Commission.
For more information, see:
EU maritime transport (European Commission).
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member State
Official Journal
Commission Implementing Act
15.6.2019
-
OJ L 136 of 15.6-19.2019, pp. 1-8
Amending act(s)
Entry in force
Deadlines for transshipment in the member States
Official journal
Regulations (EU), Euratom and Euratom
Directives 2014/10/EU and 2014/20/EU
Regulating (EU).
Regulations (EC) No 952/2013 and (Euratom) No 1065/2013
Regulate (EU/2014/EU) No 1101/2014
See consolidated version.
Amendments to Directive 2014/30/EU have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
Commission Delegated Regulations (EC



Summary 12:
Electronic road toll systems (ETS) — rules and obligations of toll chargers and EETS providers (REFERENCES
Directive (EU) 2019/849 on the interoperability of electronic road tolls (ETES)
DirectIVE (EU, Euratom) No 552/2013 on the rules and responsibilities of toll-charging authorities
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DIRECTIVE?
It aims to ensure that the EU’s electronic toll system (ETS) is interoperable.
It recasts Directive 2004/52/EC, which had to become law in the EU countries by 19 October 2011.
KEY POINTS
The directive applies to all vehicles registered in EU countries. It does not apply to scrap vehicles, stolen vehicles or number plates, or outdated vehicle registration.
EETS providers must:
ensure that they have an EETS domain on their territory;
provide toll-chargers with a statement setting out the general conditions for accessing their EETS domains, in accordance with the implementing acts referred to in paragraph 9 of the directive;
establish and maintain a contact office in each EU country.
Each EU country must ensure that any toll charger responsible for a toll charger domain on its territory develops and maintains a statement on how it intends to use EETS.
Toll chargers are responsible for:
establishing, maintaining and maintaining a register of EETS-registered vehicles;
ensuring that the EETS service providers have access to their databases;
registering and managing EETS services.
providing information to the toll charger on the failure to pay a road fee.
collecting information on the non-payment of a road toll.
checking whether a vehicle is registered in an EU country has been detected for non-compliance with the road toll and sending an information letter to the responsible body.
Information letter
The information letter must contain the following information:
the name and address of the contact office;
the vehicle registration number and make and model;
a description of the vehicle and its registration certificate.
The contact office may be a natural person or a public or private body. It must be located in the territory of the EU country in which the vehicle with registration was detected.
EU countries must ensure the following:
that the information letter contains:
a list of the toll-paying bodies responsible for EETS;
information on the number of vehicles with registration in the country in whose territory the vehicle was detected;
details of the number and model of the vehicles detected by the responsible bodies.
In addition, the directive sets out the responsibilities of the national authorities responsible for the registration of vehicles.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS DIRECTIVE APPLY?
From 19 October 2019.
BACKGROUND
The Directive is one of a series of measures designed to improve interoperability between EU countries’ EETS systems. It complements Regulation (EC) No 182/2011 on the setting up of the Electronic Toll Committee.
For more information, see:
‘EETS interoperability’ on the European Commission's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Electronic road toll system: a system that allows users to pay tolls for the use of a single payment method, such as a toll road.
ACT
Council Directive (EU), Euratom of 19 September 2019 on interoperable electronic toll systems in the European Union (OJ L 183, 19.10.2019, pp. 1-8)
RELATED ACTS
Regulation (EC, EC, EC) No 181/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2011 on the establishment of the electronic toll committee and repealing Council Directive 2005/43/EC on the implementation of Regulation (EEC, EEC, EFTA, EEA, EETS and EEA-EETS-E and repealing Directives 2005/45/EC and 2005/46/EC.
See consolidated version.
Commission Delegated Regulation (EU).
last update 04.02.2021



Summary 13:
European network of immigration liaison officers
European network on migration
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) 2019/852 — European network of liaison officers for the implementation of the Schengen acquis
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to ensure that the European Union (EU), the Commission, the European Border and Coast Guard Agency, Europol and the European Agency for Fundamental Rights (EASO) can more systematically coordinate the tasks and roles of their liaison officers deployed in third countries.
It repeals Regulation (EC) No 377/2004.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to all EU countries, the Commission and EU agencies. It does not apply to non-EU countries, such as Iceland, Norway, Liechtenstein or Switzerland.
EU countries may decide to deploy their own liaison officers to third countries on the basis of their competence and training. They may also agree to share certain tasks among each other, depending on the competence of their officers.
Joint deployment of officers by the Commission
The Commission may deploy liaison officers from its headquarters in the EU to countries other than those of the EU. These officers are responsible for:
facilitating and supporting the networks provided for in the regulation’s annexes;
cooperating with local or regional cooperation networks and cooperating, where and when appropriate, with liaison officers of countries other countries other that are not EU countries;
supporting the work of the Steering Board of the European Asylum and Migration Agency (EMA).
The Steering board is composed of one representative from each EU country and one representative of the Commission. It is assisted by a secretariat.
The European Commission is represented by a representative from the EASO.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
It entered into force on 20 June 2019.
BACKGROUND
The EU has adopted a number of measures to improve the integration of migrants into its internal market. These include:
the creation of a European Migration Agency;
the introduction of a common approach to migration policy.
In addition to this, the regulation establishes a European Network of Immigration Liaison Officers (ENOLA) which aims to:
support the development, implementation and maximise the impact of EU action on migration;
facilitate and support the networks set up by EU countries and the Commission;
contribute to the fight against smuggling of migrants and trafficking in human beings.
For more information, see:
European Network of Migrants (European Commission).
MAIN DOCUMENT
 
   கற  ̱ர  
Regulated (EU, Euratom) 2019-852 of the Council of 16 April 2019 on the European network for the implementing of the Agreement concluded by the Council and the Republic of Iceland and the Kingdom of Norway concerning the association of those two States with the implementation, application and development of the Community Schengens acquis (OJ L 176, 10.6.2019, pp. 1-7)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EU/2019/856 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
  Занканска градана барка, глаганна  года народна,  ходка   варанца и гора какадка:
Communication from the Commission to the European Parliament and the Council on the application of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms of the Migrants and of the Rights of the Child (COM(2016) 696 final, 30.3.2016)
Council Decision 2002/192/EC of 14 June 2002 establishing a European Union Agency for Migration (now Europol).
See consolidated version.
last update 04.02.2021



Summary 14:
Security standards for identity cards and residence cards
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) 2019/849 on the security standards applicable to identity cards issued by EU countries to their nationals and to residence documents issued by Member States to EU citizens and their family members when exercising their right to free movement
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes minimum security and format standards for the security of identity cards* and residence documents* for EU citizens.
KEY POINTS
EU countries must ensure that:
identity cards are issued in a secure and interoperable format;
they contain a facial image of the holder of the card and two fingerprints in interoperable digital formats;
the biometric identifiers are collected solely by qualified and duly authorised staff designated by the authorities responsible for issuing identity cards or residence cards, for the purpose of being integrated into the highly secure storage medium provided for in Article 3(5) of the regulation and in Article 7(1) for residence cards.
National identity cards must have a minimum validity of 5 years and a maximum period of validity of 10 years. The card must contain the two-letter country code of the EU country issuing the card, printed in negative in a blue rectangle and encircled by 12 yellow stars.
The holder of an identity card must provide a fingerprint and facial image for verification purposes. Children under the age of 12 years may be exempt from the requirement to give fingerprints.
In addition, EU countries must:
ensure that the identity cardholders’ fingerprints are stored in a high-security storage medium and that they are erased or destroyed at the end of their 10-year validity;
notify the competent national authority if they believe that their fingerprints have been falsified;
use only authorised staff and only when the document is required to be produced by law;
verify the authenticity of the document by means of a facial or fingerprint image or a facial photograph.
Collection and storage of biometric data must be carried out only by authorised staff.
Where necessary, national authorities may cooperate with an external service provider. However, they should exercise particular caution when cooperating with the external service providers.
FROM WHEN DOES THE LEGULATION APPLY?
The regulation applies from 3 August 2019.
BACKGROUND
The European Union has introduced a number of measures to protect the right of EU citizens to move and reside freely within the EU. These include:
the introduction of minimum security standards for national identity cards;
introduction of a European Union-wide system for the authentication of residence documents.
For more information, see:
EU identity cards (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* National identity card: a card issued by an EU country to its nationals or to its family members.
* Residence document: a document issued by a non-EU country to the family members of an EU citizen when exercising its right to live and work in the territory of that country.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EEC) No 849/2019 of 5 September 2019 establishing minimum security requirements for the identity cards, residence documents and registration certificates to be issued in the Member States pursuant to Directive 2004/38/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2004 (OJ L 183, 10.10.2019, pp. 1-16)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EC) 2018/919 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
 
   Â  
Directive 2014/34/EU of the Parliament and the Council on the establishment of a single European Union database for the verification of the identity of EU nationals and of their families and repealing Directives 64/221/EEC, 75/4/EC and 75/35/EC, and repealing Directive 2014/48/EC.
Commission Implementing Decision 2014/24/EU on the introduction of a common European Union system for authentication of the national identity card and the residence document.
Council Implementing Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 182/2011 of 30 June 2011 establishing a European information society for the protection of the personal data of EU residents.
See consolidated version.
last update 04.02.2022



Summary 15:
Interoperability between EU information systems for security, border and migration management (VIS) and the Schengen Information System (VIS), and the common identity repository (CIR)
Interoperation between EU Information Systems for Security, Border and Migration Management (VIS, CIR, ESP)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) 2018/1860 on interoperability between the information systems of the European Union concerning the Visa Information System and the exchange of data between Member States on short-stay visas
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to improve the interoperability of the EU’s internal information systems (VIS and CIR) for the purposes of border and immigration management.
It sets out rules for the sharing of biometric and travel document data between EU countries.
KEY POINTS
The regulation sets out the following:
a common EU information system (VIS);
a single identity repository for identification;
a shared European Union information system for security and border management (ESP);
an interoperable European Union Information System for security (eu-LISA).
The European Commission is responsible for developing the shared BMS and for its technical management. It is assisted by a committee composed of representatives of the Member States.
The CIR contains the data relating to persons or travel documents held in Europol data or in the Interpol databases. The European Border and Coast Guard Agency (Europol) has access to the data stored in the CIR for the purpose of combating identity fraud.
Each Member State must keep logs of queries that its duly authorised staff make. The CIR must reply in such a way that the security of the data is not compromised.
Where a query results in a red link in accordance with Article 32 of the regulation, the authorities referred to in Article 26(2) must have access, solely for the reasons of combating fraud, to the information stored in CIR.
A common European Union identity database (EUR-ID) is set up. It contains the following data:
travel documents;
travel document images;
fingerprints;
biometric data;
visas;
passports;
vehicle registration numbers.
In addition, the European Commission must develop a practical handbook to provide technical and operational guidelines, recommendations and best practices for the use of the interoperable components of the BMS. The Commission must adopt this handbook within 30 days of adoption of the implementing act.
Eur-ID is a centralised database for the identification of persons and travel documents. It can be accessed by Europol, Interpol, Eurojust and the European Border Guard Agency. It also contains the information on the number of persons who have entered the EU and their travel documents, as well as their travel dates and travel destinations.
An interoperability component of the ESP contains the biometric templates, which it must obtain from the following biometric data. These are:
fingerprint images of the holder of the travel document;
card data of the bearer of a travel document.
When a user enters the ESP, a link indicating that it is the same person should be established. If, however, this link is not established, the user must provide a description of the identity of the person who entered the ESP and the reason for the query. This information is then used to identify the person concerned.
If the user does not provide the information required for identification, the ESP will only be able to perform a query using the information contained in the passport or travel document, which is stored in a separate database (e.g. Europol or Interpol).
In order to prevent identity fraud, the EU countries must ensure that the authorities have access to a common identity database for identification. This database will contain the following information:
the number of travel documents and travel dates;
the date of entry into the EU, the date of departure from the Member State and the country where the person entered the Union and the date when the person left the Union.
Security incidents must be managed so as to ensure a quick, effective and proper response.
Non-discrimination and fundamental rights
Processing of personal data must not result in discrimination against persons on any grounds such as gender, race, colour, ethnic or social origin, genetic features, language, religion or belief, political or any other opinion, membership of a national minority, property, birth, disability, age or sexual orientation.
Member States must ensure the protection of the rights of children, the elderly, persons with a disability and persons in need of international protection.
National authorities must apply appropriate rules of professional secrecy or other equivalent duties of confidentiality to their staff required to work with data stored on the interoperality components.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULATIONS APPLY?
   
It has applied since 11 June 2019.
BACKGROUND
The EU has been implementing a series of measures to improve interoperability in the area of visa and travel



Summary 16:
Greenhouse gas emissions from renewable energy
Greenhouse gaseous fuels and biofuels and bioliquids and biomass fuels — greening the EU’s energy market
Greenhouses gas emissions — greenening the EU's energy markets
SUMMARY OF:
Directive (EU) 2019/865 on the greening of the energy market (recast)
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DIRECTIVE?
It aims to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from the production, transport, storage and conversion of renewable energy.
It recasts and repeals Directive 2009/28/EC.
KEY POINTS
EU countries must:
ensure that renewable energy is available to the public and the private sector at affordable prices;
promote the use of renewable heating and cooling systems and equipment that achieve a significant reduction in energy consumption;
encourage cooperation between renewable energy producers and consumers.
The directive applies to all sectors of the economy, including transport, energy production, storage, distribution and distribution. It does not apply to:
biofuels;
biodiesel;
biomass fuels;
energy storage and distribution;
electrical equipment;
gas.
In addition, the directive sets out rules on renewable energy in the transport sector, including:
energy efficiency;
the use of energy from renewable sources;
carbon capture and storage (e.g. photovoltaics, geothermal energy, heat pumps enabling the generation of electricity, heat and cooling, and heat pumps;
electricity generated from geothermal and thermal energy;
renewable energy from biomass fuels; and
energy from wind turbines.
EU Member States must ensure that:
there is a clear distinction between individual renewables self-consumers and jointly acting renewables consumers;
there are separate rules for wind, solar and geothermal installations.
Member States must also ensure that the renewable energy communities can participate in available support schemes on an equal footing with large participants.
There are also rules on:
participation of small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) in renewable energy markets;
participating in the EU-wide renewable energy market;
cooperation between SMEs and the public authorities;
sharing of information on the availability of renewable resources;
support for the development and operation of renewable power generation facilities.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS DIRECTIVE APPLY?
The legislation applies from 1 July 2019. Member States had to incorporate it into national law by 1 July 2020.
BACKGROUND
The EU is experiencing a significant increase in demand for energy. Part of that increase is likely to be met through an increase in the amount of land devoted to agriculture.
For more information, see:
‘Green energy’ on the European Commission's website.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Council Directives
1.7.2019
-
OJ L 140 of 5.6.2019, pp. 1-39
RELATED ACTS
Report from the Commission to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions on the implementation of the Green Deal Directive (COM(2018) 596 final of 28.3.2018)
Directives 2009/30/EC of the European parliament and of the Council of 23 April 2009 on the promotion of the renewable sources and amending and subsequently repealing Directives 2001/77/EC and 2003/31/EC (Official Journal L 140, 5.5.2009, p. 1)
See consolidated version.
last update 04.02.2021



Summary 17:
Radio spectrum policy: interoperability and interoperability between the EU’s public safety answering points and emergency services (PSAPs)
Radio Spectrum Policy
SUMMARY OF:
Directive (EU) 2018/852 — interoperability of the radio spectrum
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DIRECTIVE?
It aims to improve interoperability in the radio communications sector.
It recasts and repeals Directives 2014/30/EU, 2014/35/EU and 2014/53/EU.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The directive applies to:
radio spectrum (i.e. the frequencies between 3.5 GHz and 66 GHz) for the transmission and reception of radio signals;
radio-frequency identification (RFID) technologies and services (e.g. mobile phones, internet-connected cars, smart phones, etc.).
It does not apply to the use of radio spectrum for other purposes, such as:
electronic communications;
information and communication technologies;
telecommunications and information services;
mobile phones;
vehicle safety;
emergency services.
EU countries must ensure that:
Radio spectrum is used only when general interest objectives are at stake and should be clearly justified and subject to regular review.
The European Commission must adopt multiannual radio spectrum policy programmes, where appropriate.
National regulatory authorities must cooperate with each other where the relevant market is found to be transnational.
Regulation (EU countries have to ensure that the European Commission publishes a report on the implementation of the directive every 2 years. The report every 5 years on the progress made in implementing the directive. The Commission must also publish a report every 3 years on how the directive has been implemented.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS DIRECTIVE APPLY?
From 1 January 2019. EU countries had to incorporate it into national law by 1 January 2020.
BACKGROUND
The radio spectrum is one of the most important elements of the European Union (EU). It is used to transmit and receive radio signals and is essential for the communication of information and communication services. It is also used for emergency services and for navigation.
For more information, see:
EU radio spectrum (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
Radio frequency identification (RADIO: the ability of a radio system to identify a person, object or object in danger.
MAIN DOCUMENT
   
  барганскандка гранка  гарка, глаксанна кракка (Radio Spectrum Directive) (OJ L 94, 1.1.2019, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Directive 2018/952 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 04.02.2021



Summary 18:
Monitoring and reporting of CO2 emissions and fuel consumption values for new heavy-duty vehicles
Monitoring, reporting and collection of data on greenhouse gas emissions and fuels
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) 2019/849 on the monitoring and reporting by manufacturers of heavy duty vehicles
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out the rules for the EU’s system for measuring and reporting greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, fuel consumption and energy efficiency values for each new light-duty vehicle.
It aims to reduce GHG emissions and energy consumption by 40 % and 30 % respectively by 2030 compared to 2005.
KEY POINTS
The regulation requires manufacturers to:
monitor and report to the European Commission the CO2 (carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions* and the fuel consumption (Emissions) values determined for new light duty vehicles;
report these data to the Commission in a publicly accessible manner and free of charge;
ensure the public has access to the information they need to make informed decisions on the uptake of more energy-efficient vehicles.
The Commission may impose an administrative fine where it finds that the data reported by the manufacturer deviates from the data recorded in the framework of Regulation (EC) No 595/2009 and, in particular, in accordance with Directive 2009/125/EC (see summary).
The European Environment Agency (EEA) is responsible for managing the EU ETS Register of Heavy-Duty Vehicles on behalf of the Commission. The Register is publicly available with the exception of data entry (a) specified in Part A of Annex I and data entry, and data entries 1, 24, 25, 32, 33, 39 and 40 specified in point 2 of Part B of the Annex I.
EU Member States must notify the Commission of any changes in the serial arrangement and serial management arrangements for the reporting of the data, and notify the European Parliament and the Council of the EU Member States of any such changes.
Reporting
The data reported must be made available to the public in an easily accessible manner. The Commission may, by means of implementing acts, determine the verification and correction measures referred to in paragraphs 2 and 3 of this regulation.
Where a manufacturer fails to report the required data within the applicable deadline, it may impose administrative fines. The amounts of the administrative fines will be considered as revenue for the general budget of the Union.
In addition, the Commission may:
impose penalties on the manufacturer if the data it receives from the manufacturer do not conform with the data set out in the regulation;
require the manufacturer to provide the Commission with a report on the number of vehicles registered in each Member State and the total number of units registered in that Member State;
implement a system for the collection and transmission of data for each type of vehicle. The data must be publicly available in a range format.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
The legislation applies from 1 January 2019.
BACKGROUND
The EU has adopted a number of measures to tackle climate change, including:
Implementing Decision (EU, Euratom) 2018/852 on the setting up of a European Union Emissions Trading System (EU ETS) for light commercial vehicles and repealing Decision No 280/2004/EC;
Delegated Regulation (Euratom) 2017/2400 on the establishment of the European Union Electronic Vehicle Register (EVR);
Commission Implementing Decision No 582/2011 on the harmonisation of technical specifications for electronic transmission systems for heavy duty trucks and buses;
Directive 2009/126/EC on the registration of light commercial buses and light commercial vans;
Commission Regulation (EU), Euratom and EEA Implementing Decisions No 596/2009, No 597/2009/EC and No 598/2009 on the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF).
For more information, see:
European Union ETS (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* CO2 emission: the total amount of greenhouse gases emitted by a vehicle in a given year.
*Fuel consumption: the amount of energy used to transport a given volume of goods or passengers.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (UE) No 749/2019 of 21 December 2019 establishing a framework for the monitoring, reporting, collection and collation of greenhouse gas emission values and energy-efficiency values for the new light and medium duty vehicles (OJ L 127, 1.1.2019, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (U) 2019-849 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
Commission Delegated Decision (EURatom) No 696/2008 of 22 December 2008 establishing a European Regional Framework Directive for light and heavy commercial vehicles (EFRDF) (O J L 183, 30.12.2008, pp 1-



Summary 19:
Security of gas supply: EU countries’ national emergency plans and emergency plans (Regulation (EU) No 994/2010 — security of the EU’s natural gas supply (SGE)
Security of the European Union natural gas market: regulation (EU).
SGE
SUMMARY
WHAT DOES THIS REGULATION DO?
It lays down rules on the security of EU gas supply.
It aims to ensure that the EU gas market is secure.
KEY POINTS
The regulation lays down the responsibilities of national authorities and the European Commission.
National authorities must:
conduct a comprehensive national risk assessment and assess natural, technological, commercial, financial, social, political and market-related risks, andany other relevant ones;
identify the relevant risk factors for each EU country;
prepare a national emergency plan and an emergency response plan;
set up a risk management system;
ensure that the national emergency response plans and the emergency plans are updated regularly and published.
The European Commission adopts a risk assessment report every 2 years.
Each EU country must notify the Commission of any national emergency.
EU countries must also notify the European Gas Guarantee Group (EGG) and the Gas Coordination Group (GCG). The GCG adopts its rules of procedure.
In addition, EU countries must ensure that:
the competent authorities, in particular through their national authorities, conduct risk assessments and assess the relevant risks;
the European Commission, through its technical experts, adopts risk assessment reports and risk management plans;
adopts risk assessments;
lists the risk factors that are likely to lead to a disruption of the supply of gas;
coordinates the measures to be taken in the event of a disruption;
inform the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions of the measures taken in case of a crisis;
draw up and implement emergency plans to deal with any disruption of gas supplies;
provide the Commission with a list of the gas supply risk groups.
A national emergency notification must be sent to the Commission within 4 months of receiving a notification. It must include:
a description of the emergency situation;
a list of gas delivery information, such as minimum and maximum gas volumes, delivery points or conditions for the suspension of gas deliveries;
an estimate of the amount of gas needed to meet the demand;
details of the number of gas storage and distribution points in the EU.
If the Commission considers that an emergency is likely to occur, it must take the necessary measures to ensure the safety of the internal gas market, including:
implementing the emergency response measures;
establishing a network of emergency response points;
developing and implementing an emergency management system.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 January 2017.
BACKGROUND
The SGE has been amended several times, most recently in 2018.
For more information, see:
EU gas security (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Natural gas: natural gas supplied by a natural gas company.
* Gas security: the ability of a gas company to provide uninterrupted gas supply throughout the EU without interruption of its supply. It is the responsibility of the company to ensure its security of supply and to provide the EU with reliable, uninterrupted and safe gas.
ACT
 
  барганска грабанда правлана: гарка (гродна) (OJ L 127, 1.4.2017, pp. 1-2)
* European Gas Supply Group: a group of EU countries responsible for managing the internal market for natural gas. It includes:
Bulgaria,
Czech Republic,
Germany,
France,
Greece,
Italy,
Luxembourg,
Austria,
Hungary,
Serbia,
Spain,
Iceland,
Sweden,
Portugal,
Norway,
Ireland,
Nederlands,
Poland,
Slovenia and
Switzerland.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Regulation [Official Journal L 127 of 1.1.2017
-
OJ C 130 of 2.2.2017.
RELATED ACTS
Regulations (EU, Euratom) No 652/2014, (EU), No 653/2014 and (EU/EEA) No 752/2013 of the Council and of the Commission on the coordination of measures to protect the internal energy market and on gas security and on the protection of consumers and the security and stability of the energy system (Official Journal C 202 of



Summary 20:
Energy labelling of electrical lamps and luminaires
Energy labels and information sheets
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 1025/2012 on energy labelling
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out rules on the labelling and product information sheets of energy-related products.
It aims to promote energy efficiency, climate mitigation and environmental protection.
KEY POINTS
EU countries must ensure that:
each unit of a product is accompanied by a label in paper form complying with the relevant delegated act;
each product information sheet is supplemented by a product informationheet.
The regulation applies to:
electrical lamps and light bulbs;
luminaries;
electromagnetic lamps;
light bulbs.
Labels must comply with:
the relevant delegated acts;
the European Commission’s delegated acts adopted in accordance with Article 290 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU);
the rules laid down in Directive 2010/30/EU and Directive 96/60/EC on the harmonisation of the laws of the Member States relating to the sale and putting into service of electrical appliances.
Where a supplier places a product on the market or puts into service, it must provide the dealer with a label complying with these delegated acts. The dealer must not display the rescaled labels before that date.
If a dealer does not have a label, it may request one from the supplier in order to check that the product complies with the delegated act.
the dealer must provide a product-specific label and information sheet.
In addition, the dealer must keep a record of changes to the label and the information sheet for market surveillance purposes, keeping track of the dates of any editing.
National authorities must take the necessary measures to deal with products presenting a risk.
Penalties for infringements of the provisions of the regulation are effective, proportionate and dissuasive. The Commission may also adopt delegated acts to impose penalties on suppliers and manufacturers.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 January 2013.
BACKGROUND
The European Commission has adopted a number of delegated acts on the regulation, including:
Delegated Regulation (EC) No 874/2012 of 12 July 2012 supplementing Directives 2010/29/EU with regard to the energy labels of electrical lamp and lightbulbs (OJ L 258, 26.9.2012, pp. 1-8);
Delegate Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 552/2014 of the Council of 11 December 2014 on the energy labelled information sheets for electrical appliances (OCT-2014) (Codified version).
For more information, see:
‘Energy Labelling of Electrical Lamps and Light Bulbs’ on the European Commission's website.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition into force
Official Journal
Directive 2010/31/EU
1.1.2013
-
OJ C 202 of 1.2.2013, pp 1-2.
RELATED ACTS
Commission Implementing Decision 2014/852/EU of 25 November 2014 laying down the rules for the marketing of electrical products in the EU and repealing Council Decision 87/95/EEC and Decision No 1673/2006/EC (O J L 316, 14.11.2014, pp 3-8)
Commission Delegated Decision 2014-852 of 27 November 2014 on energy labels for electrical products and light Bulbs (Codification version) (Official Journal L 347 of 27.11).
Commission Regulation (Euratom) 2015/856 of 26 November 2015 laying down rules for marketing of electronic appliances in the Union and repealing Commission Decision 2006/873/EC and Commission Decision 2004/22/EC as regards the energy label for electronic appliances and light bulb.
Commission Directive 2014/9/EC of 25 October 2015 laying out the rules on energy label requirements for electrical lamps, light bulbs and other light bulbs, and repealing Directives 2009/105/EC, 2009/23/EC.
See consolidated version.
Last updated: 28.02.2015



Summary 21:
Protecting the rights of natural persons in the processing of personal data
Protection of the right to personal data in the European Union
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) 2016/865 on the protection of the rights and obligations of the data subject
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to ensure that the rights, obligations and responsibilities of the natural persons concerned are respected when processing their personal data.
It lays down rules on the processing, storage and use of these personal data by companies and public authorities.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to:
personal data collected by the EU’s national authorities, controllers, processors or other recipients in the EU;
data collected by EU countries and international organisations;
the processing and storage of such data by the European Commission;
processing and storage by the Commission.
Rights of the individual concerned
The data subject has the following rights:
the right to be informed and to have their rights respected;
to have their data processed only for the purpose for which they have given their consent; and
to be able to withdraw their consent as soon as possible.
Right to erasure (‘right to be forgotten’)
The rights of data subjects must be respected in all cases, including:
when processing personal data;
when the processing is carried out in a non-EU country;
in cases where personal data are transferred from the EU to a third country or international organisation;
where they are used for the purposes of a specific to a specific purpose.
in relation to an EU country or to which they belong.
In addition, data subjects have the right of access to the information they have been provided.
Consultation and consent
Before processing a personal data, the user must be given the opportunity to give their consent. This must be done in writing, or by other means, including, where appropriate, by electronic means. It must be as easy as possible to withdraw as to give consent.
If the user does not give his or her consent, the processing must be terminated.
The user must also be informed of the reasons for the decision-making process and the consequences of the decision.
When processing, the controller must:
ensure that only personal data which are necessary for each specific purpose of the processing are processed;
provide the user with the necessary technical and organisational measures for ensuring that, by default, only the personal data that are necessary to meet the specific needs of that specific purpose are processed.
Disclosure of processing activities
The controller must inform the user of all processing activities, including the names and contact details of the person responsible for processing the data. The user must have access to all the information necessary for the processing to be carried out. The data subject must be informed in writing of the information that is necessary to carry out the processing. The information must be provided in writing or in electronic form, including by means of a pseudonymisation, in accordance with EU or EU country law.
EU countries must ensure that:
data subjects receive full and effective compensation for the damage they have suffered.
Data subjects who have been the subject of a breach of their rights must be compensated for any damage caused by their own staff. The EU country in whose territory the damage was caused must make good such damage under the conditions applicable to damage caused in its own territory.
Where a data subject is the object of an infringement of their right to privacy, the EU country concerned must compensate them for the loss of their privacy.
Commission Implementing Regulation (EC) No 865/2016
The Commission has adopted implementing rules for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) which have a turnover of less than €500,000. The regulation sets out the rules for the implementation of the regulation.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULATIONS APPLY?
   
It has applied since 14 April 2016. EU countries had to incorporate it into national law by 14 April 2017.
BACKGROUND
 
  * KEY TERMS
* Personal data: a set of data on a person, including their name, address, gender, age, nationality, place of residence, gender identity, gender expression, sexual orientation, age of birth, ethnic origin, gender of the user, and any other characteristic of that person.
* Processing: the process of collecting, storing, processing, storing and storing personal data for a particular purpose, such as to identify, analyse, analyse and analyse the results of, or to make decisions on, the use of that data, in order to make a product or service available to the consumer.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 1888/2008 of 14 April 2008 on the Protection of the Rights and Responsibilities of the Data Subject (Codified version) (OJ L 127, 15.5.2008, pp. 1



Summary 22:
Harmonised indices of consumer prices and the consumer price index (HICP-CT)
harmonised index of consumer price inflation
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 549/2013 on the harmonisation of national and regional accounts in the European Union
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out the harmonised indices for consumer prices.
It aims to improve the comparability and comparability of harmonised consumer price indices and the European Harmonised Consumer Price Index (HCP-CT).
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to all EU countries. It does not apply to:
sub-indices of the HICP and of the European Commission’s Harmonised Indices of Consumer Prices and the Harmonised Harmonised Price Indices for the Purchasing of Household Goods and the Household Price Index;
the harmonised price indices of the OOH price index and the Home Owners’ Price Index.
EU countries are not required to produce and transmit:
any sub-inclusive indicator of the price index or of the HPI accounting for less than one part in a thousand of the total expenditure;
any other sub-indice of these indices accounting for more than 1 part in the thousand of total expenditure and total purchases of goods and services.
The European Commission is responsible for the implementation of the regulation.
Implementing acts
The implementing acts concern:
sampling and representativity;
collection and treatment of prices;
replacements and quality adjustment;
index compilation;
exchange standards and revisions.
Special indices
special indices
treatment of products in specific areas.
Deadlines, exchange standards, revisions and revisions
The Commission has the power to adopt implementing acts.
References
Act
Entry into force
Deadline for transposition in the Official Journal
Official Journal
Council Decision No 552/2013/EU
Regulations (EU, Euratom) No 652/2014 and (ECB) No 749/2014
Directive 2014/13/EU on the exchange of information between the European Central Bank and the Commission
Directives 2014/14/EU and 2014/15/EU concerning the exchange rate between the euro and the euro area currencies
Directions 2014/17/EU, 2014/18/EU or 2014/19/EU regarding the exchange rates between euro area countries and the Euro Area countries
Council Directive 2014/23/EU establishing a European statistical system for the collection and transmission of data on the prices of consumer goods and household goods
Council Regulation (EC) No 882/2013 of 21 May 2013 on the European system of national, regional and local accounts and repealing Council Regulation (EEC, EC) No 1082/2008
Regulated (EU), Euratom No 653/2013 and (Euratom No 751/2013 concerning the European System of National and Regional Accounts and repealing Decision 2014/24/EU (OJ L 174, 26.6.2013, pp. 1-8)
See consolidated version.
last update 04.02.2016



Summary 23:
Anti-dumping investigations in the EU: rules for establishing and pursuing an investigation
Anti-Dumping investigations: rules governing the establishment and pursuing investigations
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 1225/2009 — rules for initiating and pursuing a European Union (EU) investigation into dumping
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It lays down detailed rules for the investigation into the alleged dumping of goods by non-EU countries.
It codifies and repeals Regulation (Euratom) No 652/2009.
KEY POINTS
The regulation lays down the procedures for initiating an investigation into allegations of dumping. It covers:
the establishment and treatment of the facts;
the imposition of provisional measures, the imposition and collection of anti-duty duties, the duration and review of measures and the public disclosure of information relating to investigations;
provisional and definitive duties.
Provisional measures
The European Commission may impose provisional or definitive duties on imports of a product from a market-economy third country if it considers that there is an injury to the EU’s economic interests caused by the import of the product from that country.
The Commission may also impose a duty on imports from a non-market economy third country. The duty must not exceed the margin of dumping established by the Commission.
Dumping must be calculated using a weighted average of all relevant and duly documented evidence.
Importers must register with the Commission for a period of 9 months. Imports must not be made subject to registration for more than 9 months and must be subject to a duty of no more than 0.5% of the value of the goods they export.
If the Commission considers that the goods concerned are subject to dumping, it may decide to impose a provisional duty on the imports. The amount of the provisional duty must be less than the margin established but it should not be greater than the lesser duty if such a lesser duty would be adequate to remove the injury to EU industry. The Commission may, however, impose a definitive duty of up to 1 % of the amount of duty imposed on imports.
In the event that the Commission concludes that the imports are not subject to the duty, it can impose a final duty of at least 1 %. The final duty may be higher or lower than the initial duty, depending on the level of the damage caused.
Where a duty is imposed, the Commission must notify the EU countries and the European Economic and Social Committee of the reasons for the decision.
When an EU country withdraws an undertaking from an investigation, it must inform the Commission of the reason and inform the European Parliament, the Council, the European Court of Auditors and the Court of Justice of the European Union of the case.
Public disclosure
In order to determine whether two parties are associated, account may be taken of the definition of related parties set out in Article 127 of Commission Implementing Regulation (EU), as well as of the time limits for the disclosure of the information to be made.
Information must be made available to the Commission, the EU country concerned and to the public. The information must be used only for the purpose for which it was requested.
EU countries must provide the Commission with all relevant information, including:
information relating to the origin of the imports;
information on the number of companies involved in the investigation;
details of the number and type of companies that have been involved; and
the number of firms involved in each investigation.
Expiry of the investigation
The investigation is terminated if the Commission decides that the investigation is no longer necessary.
Duration, reviews and refunds
The duration of an investigation is determined by a Commission decision. The decision must be published in the Official Journal no later than 1 month after the Commission has received all the relevant evidence. It must be reviewed at least every 3 years.
A Commission decision may also be made to suspend an investigation if the information it receives is insufficient or if the investigation has not been completed within the deadline specified in the regulation.
An adjustment may be made for differences in commissions paid in respect of the sales under consideration.
Reviews
A decision may be adopted to suspend the investigation or to grant a refund to a company that has not complied with the conditions of the regulation or to withdraw its undertaking from the investigation. It may also grant the Commission the right to review the decision and to grant refunds to the company that withdrew its undertaking.
References
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Commission Implementing Regulations (EU, Euratom) 2015/2447
-
OJ L 127 of 26.4.2015
See consolidated version.
Last updated: 23.07.2015



Summary 24:
Protecting the EU’s economic interests against subsidised imports from non-EU countries: EU anti-subsidies and countervailing measures (codified version)
Protecting EU‘s economic interest against subsidies and other forms of unfair trade in goods: codified version
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 on the protection of the European Union against subsidisation and anti-infringement measures
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It codifies and repeals Council Regulation (EC) No 597/2009 on protection against subsidies.
It aims to ensure that EU countries and exporters do not benefit from unfair trade practices.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to:
all imports into the EU from countries or exporters not covered by the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade 1994 (GATT) and to imports from countries covered by Annex I of the Agreement on Agriculture (Agreement on Agriculture);
all goods imported for free circulation from countries outside the EU that are subject to a specific type of subsidisation or other type of anti-competitive measures.
Importers and importers must notify the European Commission of any imports they consider to be subject to such a type of subsidy or to an anti-defrauding measure.
The Commission may launch an investigation to determine whether a country or an exporter has benefited from such a subsidy or a similar type of trade practice. The investigation must cover both subsidies and any injury caused by such a practice. It must be launched within 60 days of receiving a formal complaint from an interested party. The Commission request for information.
Provisional duties may be imposed on imports that are not subject to the investigation. The provisional duties must be imposed no earlier than 60 days from the initiation of the proceedings but no later than 9 months from the beginning of the investigations. In cases of breach or withdrawal of undertakings, definitive duties may also be levied on goods entered for the free circulation no more than 90 days before the application of provisional measures, provided that the imports have been registered in accordance with Article 24(5) and that any such retroactive assessment does not apply to imports entered before the breach or withdrawing of the undertaking.
Where a provisional duty has not been imposed, the interested party must be provided with an opportunity to request final disclosure within time limits set by the Commission.
Duties may not hinder the procedures of customs clearance.
If the Commission concludes that a country has not complied with its obligations under the regulation, it may impose a definitive duty on the goods it considers to have benefited from the subsidy or the anti-fraud measure. It may also impose a provisional or final duty on goods that have been imported for the purpose of preventing or limiting the use of domestic over imported goods.
In addition, the Commission may request the assistance of the competent authorities of the Member States in the monitoring of the undertakings. They must send to the Commission the information requested together with the results of all inspections, checks or investigations carried out.
Disclosure rights of interested parties
All interested parties must be given the opportunity to present their case within the time limits laid down in the regulation. If they refuse to do so, they may be subject, for example, to a preliminary investigation or to a final decision.
Any interested party that does not provide the Commission with all the information it needs may be excluded from the investigation or from the final decision, unless it can prove that the claim is justified. In addition, any interested party may be refused access to, or otherwise prevented from providing necessary information within the limits set for in this regulation, or significantly impedes the investigation, or if it is found that the Commission has not made an affirmative or negative decision on the facts available.
Rules on the conduct of investigations and the review of investigations
The European Commission may review the regulation in the light of new information it receives. The regulation sets out detailed rules on how to do this.
FROM WHEN DOES THE LEGULATION APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 January 2012.
BACKGROUND
 
  * KEY TERMS
* Subsidies: any form of economic or financial support to a producer or exporter that is intended to encourage or facilitate the production of a particular product.
* Countervailing measure: any trade measure that is designed to prevent or restrict the supply of a product or to restrict the export of that product to a non-member of the EU.
MAIN DOCUMENT
 			
Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 181/2011 of 21 December 2011 on the Protection of the Union against Subsidisation and Anti-Infringement Measures (Codified Version) (OJ L 183, 28.12.2011, pp. 1-36)
Successive amendments to Regulation (Euratom) no 181/2012 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is



Summary 25:
EU financial support for EU countries affected by the COVID-19 crisis (2020-2021)
EU financial aid for countries hit by the crisis
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) 2020/2094 on the European Union financial assistance for countries in the event of a crisis
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets up a financial instrument, known as the EU financial assistance facility (EUFIF), to help EU countries recover and recover from the impact of the crisis.
The EUFIF is the largest financial instrument in the EU’s economic and monetary union (EMU). It provides up to €360 million in loan support to EU countries.
KEY POINTS
EU countries must submit to the European Commission a recovery and resilience plan that is duly reasoned and substantiated. The plan must include:
a comprehensive economic and financial recovery plan for each EU country;
recovery and resilience plans for each of the EU countries covered by the facility;
a medium-to-low-impact assessment of the economic impact of measures taken;
measures to improve the resilience of the economy and the competitiveness of the labour market;
investments in digital technologies to support the digitalisation of SMEs and the growth of small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs);
measures in the energy, transport and green sectors to improve energy efficiency;
the implementation of measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
Each EU country may also request technical support under the Technical Support Instrument (TSI).
. The total amount of support for each country is up to 6.8 % of its gross national income (GNI) in current prices.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULAWARD APPLY?
The regulation applies from 1 February 2020.
BACKGROUND
The European Commission is responsible for administering the facility. It is assisted by the European Stability Mechanism (ESM).
For more information, see:
EU Financial Aid Facility (European Commission).
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force
Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Commission Implementing Regulation (EU/2020/2093
1.2.2020
-
OJ L 136 of 1.2 February 2020
Amending act(s)
Council Regulation (EC) No 552/2020 of 20 December 2020 establishing a European Union Financial Assistance Facility for the period 2020-2022 (OJ C 364 of 28.10.2020, pp. 1-36)
See consolidated version.
RELATED ACTS
Commission Delegated Regulation (Euratom) 2019/852 of 20 November 2019 laying down detailed rules for the operation of the Facility and laying down procedures for the allocation of financial support to Member States pursuant to Articles 14 and 15 of this Regulation, subject to Article 3(5) of Regulation(EU) 2021/240 of the Financial Regulation.
Council Decision (EU, Euratom) 2018/853 of 27 November 2018 laying down the procedures for granting financial support under Article 14 of the Regulation, pursuant to Article 6(2) of the Framework Decision on the Facility.
Commission Decision (EUR) 2020-2020/856 of 20 June 2020 laying down rules for granting technical support pursuant to the Facility, pursuant as regards Article 7 of the Fund for the Implementation of the Investment Regulation (Finance Regulation).
Commission Directive (EU), Euratom and Euratom of 20 May 2020 establishing the framework for the implementation of the European Regional Development Fund (FDF).
Last updated: 27.07.2020



Summary 26:
The COVID-19 instrument for the period from 1 January 2021 to 31 December 2027 (European Semester 2020-2027)
The EU’s economic and social resilience instrument (EUESI)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) 2021/241 establishing the EUESI
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes the European Economic and Social Instrument (EESI).
It aims to support national authorities in improving their capacity to:
design, develop and implement reforms;
prepare, amend, implement and revise recovery and resilience plans.
It also aims to encourage investment, to increase competitiveness and to achieve sustainable economic convergence, resilience and recovery.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The instrument is designed to support EU countries’ efforts to improve their capacity:
to:
develop and implement sustainable economic policies and strategies;
to prepare, amend and revise their economic and financial recovery plans; and
to promote the sustainable development of the European Union (EU).
Objectives
The objective of the instrument is to assist EU countries in:
improving their capacity in developing, developing and implementing reforms and to prepare and revising their economic recovery plans pursuant to the European Semester (1 January 2021-31 December 2020);
to encourage investment and to promote the green and digital transitions.
Specific objectives
To achieve the general objective, the instrument has the specific objectives of:
supporting the development of sustainable economic and economic policies that take into account guidelines for employment;
encouraging investment in the green, digital and sustainable growth;
promoting the sustainable growth and jobs;
fostering innovation and competitiveness;
raising awareness of the impact of climate change and climate change on the economy;
providing technical support for the development and implementation of economic recovery strategies.
Cooperation and support plans
EU countries are required to develop their own national multiannual investment strategies in support of those priorities in the context of the EU Semester.
The European Commission is responsible for coordinating and coordinating the instrument. It is assisted by the European Research and Innovation Fund (ERIF) and the European Investment Bank (EIBF).
The EESI has a budget of €864 million.
Eligible actions
The Commission may grant grants up to 100% of the eligible costs. The Commission may also request technical support from EU countries.
In addition, the Commission may make available final studies or reports produced as part of eligible actions.
Transparency
The regulation establishes a single online public repository through which it may, subject to applicable rules and on the basis of consultation with the EU countries concerned, make available the results of studies, reports and analyses it has carried out, as well as any final studies and reports produced by EU countries, that it considers to be eligible for EU funding.
Monitoring and evaluation
To ensure the proper implementation of this instrument, EU countries must:
report to the Commission on the progress they have made in implementing the instrument;
ensure that the measures they have taken are transparent;
monitor the effectiveness of the instruments and the results they have achieved.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
It entered into force on 1 July 2021.
BACKGROUND
   
For more information, see:
‘The European economic resilience instrument’ on the European Commission's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Economic and social instrument: an instrument designed to help EU countries improve their capacities to develop, develop, implement, prepare and revise economic, social and recovery plans in order to promote sustainable economic growth and to encourage the growth of the Union's economy.
ACT
Council Regulation (EEC) No 552/2020 of 27 June 2020 establishing the European economic and Social instrument (OJ L 183, 1.7.2020, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EU/2019/1) have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 04.02.2022



Summary 27:
Compensation for passengers in the event of damage to railway rolling stock and carriage facilities (Regulation (EC) No 1371/2007)
Compensation to passengers in case of damage or damage to rail rolling stock or carriage facilities
SUMMARY OF:
Implementing Regulation (EU) 2019/852 — Compensation for passengers injured or seriously injured on the railway system
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It lays down rules on compensation for passengers who are injured or severely injured on railway services.
It repeals and repeals Regulation (EC, No 1370/2007.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to:
the carriage of passengers on rail services;
traffic management of trains;
conditions of carriage;
the maintenance and repair of railway infrastructure;
services provided under public service contracts.
Railways must:
ensure that passengers are provided with adequate number of places for bicycles;
provide passengers with the means to travel without delay and without undue delay.
Train companies must ensure that:
there are sufficient places for passengers with disabilities and persons with reduced mobility to enable them to be independently mobile;
there is sufficient space for bicycles in the carriage and in the cabins;
they must provide adequate numbers of places to accommodate persons with disabilities, unless the acquisition or upgrade concerns restaurant cars, sleeping cars or couchette cars.
Passengers are entitled to compensation for:
delays of up to 60 minutes;
luggage loss;
partial loss of luggage
total loss of carriage.
total compensation for partial loss of baggage
damage
damage to railway infrastructure
loss of carriage facilities.
EU countries must take all necessary measures to ensure that compensation is paid out in a non-discriminatory manner.
In addition, the European Commission must adopt an implementing act establishing a common form for compensation requests under this regulation by 7 June 2023.
The Commission must publish a report on the implementation of the regulation every 2 years.
FROM WHEN DOES THE REGULE APPLY?
   
 
It has applied since 7 June 2019.
BACKGROUND
The European Parliament and the Council adopted the regulation on behalf of the European Union (now the EU).
For more information, see:
Railway compensation (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Limitation of liability: the amount of compensation to be paid for the loss or damage caused by the carriage, carriage or equipment of a train.
* Liability: the liability of the railway company for any damage or loss resulting from its negligence or intentional omission.
MAIN DOCUMENT
  Егранскаганка нарка   бакова гакка
Commission Implementing Regulation(EU) 2018/853 of 7 June 2018 laying down the Compensation for Passenger Injured or Seriously Injured on the Railway System (Recast) (OJ L 136, 7.6.2018, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EEC) 2018-852 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
  ARTICLE
  The European Commission adopts Implementing Decision 2018/955 of 7 May 2018 on the application of Regulation (COTIF) No 552/2014 on the compensation for passenger Injured and Dangerous on the Railways of the Union and repealing Council Regulation No 1372/2007 (Codified version).
Directive 2014/13/EU of the EU Parliament and of the Council of 23 February 2014 on the introduction of measures to improve the safety and security of passengers travelling by rail in the EU and amending Council Directive 2004/8/EC (Directive 2004/9/EC).
See consolidated version.
last update 04.02.2022



Summary 28:
Pre-accession assistance for the period 2021-2027: instrument for preaccession financial assistance (IPA III) for the EU’s candidate countries
Post-Accession assistance: Instrument for Preaccession Financial Aid for the European Union (IPP III)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2018/1046 establishing a framework for planning and delivering external assistance to the countries seeking to join the EU
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes a multiannual financial framework (MFF) to support the countries applying for the status of candidate country in the EU.
It sets out the priorities for providing assistance to these countries.
KEY POINTS
The regulation establishes the instrument for Pre-accessional Financial Assistance (‘IAPA III’).
The aim of the MFF is to provide financial support for the countries that are applying for EU membership.
The beneficiaries are Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina (Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Estonia, Greece, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Montenegro, Poland, Romania, Serbia, Slovenia, Turkey, Ukraine, Ukraine and the United Kingdom (1).
They are listed in Annex I of the regulation.
Each beneficiary is assessed on its own merits according to its commitment to and progress in implementing reforms, in particular in the field of the rule of law and fundamental rights, democratic institutions and public administration reform, economic development and competitiveness.
In addition, the beneficiaries are assessed according to their capacity to implement reforms.
the European Commission adopts a strategic plan for each year. The strategic board is composed of representatives of the European Commission, all EU countries and the European Investment Bank (EIB).
Strategic planning and general principles
The European Commission is responsible for the strategic planning and implementation of the assistance. It adopts the strategic plans for each of the beneficiaries. The plan must be adopted for a period of up to 7 years. It must include a description of the priority areas for which the assistance will be provided and the measures to be taken to achieve these priorities.
EU countries are assessed on the basis of the progress they have made in implementing their reform objectives. The Commission is assisted by a committee for the instrument.
Monitoring, reporting and evaluation
The Commission monitors, audits and evaluates the progress made by the beneficiaries, including at local level. It also monitors, auditors and evaluates its financial interests.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
 
   
It applies from 1 January 2021.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Council Regulation (EU) No 1046/2018
1.1.2021
-
OJ L 193 of 7.7.2018
Amending act(s)
Council Decision No 541/2014/EU
2021-2020
2023-2025
2027-2026
2028-2028
2029-2030
2031-2031
2032-2033
2034-2034
2035-2035
2036-2036
2037-2039
2039-2040
2041-2041
2042-2043
2045-2046
2051-2052
2052-2053
2053-2054
2055-2055
2056-2056
2057-2058
2060-2060
2061-2061
2062-2062
2063-2064
2065-2065
2070-2070
2071-2071
2072-2073
2074-2075
2075-2080
2080-2090
2090-2095
2095-2096
2096-2097
2097-2098
2098-2099
202000-202000
202001-202002
202002-202003
202004-202005
202005-202006
202006-202007
202007-202008
202008-202009
202010-202010
202011-202011
202012-202013
202013-202014
202014-202015
202015-202016
202016-202020
20202015:
2020-2021:
2022-2022:
2019-2023:
2018-2024:
2016-2020:
2015-2020.
2025:
2017-2029:
2014-2020 (2020-2020)
2030-2032:
2013-2020 and 2021-2019:
30-30:
25-35:
EU financial instruments
2040-2050:
Multiannual Financial Framework for the pre-



Summary 29:
External Action Guarantee for the implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development (SDGs) and the EU’s common foreign and security policy (EASDP)
External Action guarantee for the execution of the SDGs and the European Common Foreign and Security Policy (ECSD)
SUMMARY OF:
Implementing Regulation (EU) 2019/852 — the European External Action Guarantees
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes the European Union (EU)-wide external action guarantee*.
It aims to ensure consistency between the different areas of its external action and between these and its other policies, as well as to work for a high degree of cooperation in all fields of international relations.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to all EU countries and territories in the European Neighbourhood Area (EEA). It covers the period from 1 January 2021 until the launch of that evaluation.
The EASDP is funded by the EU budget. It is implemented through a number of instruments, such as the European Instrument for International Nuclear Safety Cooperation (EIFIC), the European Fund for Strategic Development (EFSD+), the EU External Action Service (EFSD) and other instruments.
It covers the following areas of cooperation:
human rights and democracy;
civil society and civil society organisations;
peace, stability and conflict prevention;
global challenges;
development and security for development;
international cooperation;
economic and social development.
In addition, the EEFSDGs are supported by:
the European Union External Action Fund (EAFD);
;
the EFSD, which is the main instrument for the financing of multilateral and bilateral and multilateral programmes.
EU support for multilateral projects
The European Union also provides financial support for the development and security of EU countries in the areas covered by the EAFD, including:
research and development programmes;
cooperation with non-EU countries and international organisations in the fields of human rights, democracy, civil society, peace, stability, conflict prevention, global challenges, economic development and social inclusion;
exchange of information and communication technologies;
support for research and development (R & D&D) programmes and research and innovation (R&I) activities;
training and mentoring programmes for young people;
capacity building of military actors for development, in accordance with Article 9 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU (TFEU).
The EU also provides support for:
economic development, including through:
investment in infrastructure and energy;
research, development and innovation;
education, training and awareness-raising;
environmental protection;
health and safety;
transport;
science and technology;
information and culture;
energy;
justice and security;
regional cooperation.
Implementation
EU countries’ national authorities are responsible for implementing the programme. They must:
ensure that the programme is implemented in line with the objectives of the multilateral instruments;
take the necessary measures to implement the programme;
prepare action plans for the duration of the programme and ensure that they are transparent and timely;
coordinate their actions with the relevant international organisations and bodies;
provide the European Commission with information on the progress made and the results achieved.
A strategic board is responsible for the organisation and functioning of EFSD+. It meets at least twice a year and, when possible, adopts opinions by consensus.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
It applies from 31 December 2019.
BACKGROUND
The UEADG is one of the main instruments of the Union's external action policy. The other instruments are the EIFIC and the EFSDP.
For more information, see:
External action guarantee (European Commission).
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EC) No 552/2019/EU of 31 October 2019 establishing the European external action guarantees (OJ L 157, 31.10.2019, pp. 1-5)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EJ L 152, 31 October 2018, pp.(1-2)
See consolidated version.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
Council Decision 2010/427/EU
of 26 July 2010 establishing the organisation, functioning and organisation of the European Emergency Action Service [Official Journal L 201, 3.8.2010].
Council Resolution of 26 June 2010 establishing a European Emergency Coordination Centre for the Implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals (EECSD+).
last update 04.02.2021



Summary 30:
Whistleblower protection: protecting the public interest in the fight against breaches of EU law (Directive 2018/2021/EU)
Whistlebleaker protection: safeguarding the public’s interest in protecting the EU’S environmental protection
SUMMARY OF:
Directive (EU) 2018/1921 on the protection of persons reporting breaches of Union law
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DIRECTIVE?
It sets out rules to protect persons who report breaches of the EU environmental acquis (EU law on environmental protection).
It aims to improve the enforcement of EU environmental protection.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The directive applies to persons who:
report breaches to EU institutions, bodies, offices or agencies;
make a public disclosure of a breach;
have the right to be compensated for any damage caused by the breach.
It does not apply to:
the protection of classified information;
protection of legal and medical professional privilege;
the secrecy of judicial deliberations;
rules on criminal procedure.
EU institutions and bodies have the obligation to establish internal and external reporting channels and to follow up on reports.
Reporting must be carried out by:
a person who is well placed to report a breach directly to the company head;
a company officer well placed in a position to report to the organisational head, such as a chief compliance or human resources officer, an integrity officer, a legal or privacy officer or a chief financial officer;
an auditor, a chief audit executive or a member of the board;
third parties such as external counsel, auditors, trade union representatives or employees’ representatives.
An internal reporting channel may also be set up by an external reporting platform provider or by a third party.
In addition, the reporting person must be encouraged to report breaches to other sources of information such as the public or the media.
The reporting person may not be penalised for reporting a breach if the breach remains unaddressed, for instance in cases where the breach was not appropriately assessed or investigated, or no appropriate remedial action was taken.
Persons who are not sure about how to report or whether they will be protected in the end may be discouraged from reporting. However, this should not discourage them from doing so.
Exchange of information between reporting persons
Reporting persons must be able to share information with each other and with third parties. This information may include:
information on the nature and scope of the breach,
the reasons for the breach and the nature of the action taken to address it;
any other information that may be relevant to the investigation, investigation or remedial actions to be taken;
details of the person who made the disclosure, including the nature, nature and content of the information provided.
External reporting channels must also be established to enable reporting by means of physical meetings, within a reasonable timeframe. These channels should also be open to third parties, including:
consultants,
auditors,
legal and medical professionals,
employee representatives,
public service employees,
other persons working in the public sector.
This directive does not affect the application of EU or national law relating to any of the following:
privacy of confidential information,
access to personal data,
protecting legal and professional privilege,
rules of judicial deliberation.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS DIRECTIVE APPLY?
The legislation entered into force on 1 July 2018. EU countries had to incorporate it into national law by 1 July 2019.
BACKGROUND
   Â  
The European Commission has adopted a communication on the implementation of the directive.
For more information, see:
EU whistleblower protection (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* External reporting channel: a channel where a person reports a breach to another person or organisation.
* Internal reporting: an internal channel in which a person, or a company officer, or an employee, reports to the organisation head. In smaller entities, this function could be a dual function held by a company head, a vice-president, a compliance officer or an auditor or a board member.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force: Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Council Directive (EU).
-
OJ L 136 of 21.5.2018
RELATED ACTS
 
 Â
 хранска грака  барка, гарна   глаксанда ванта,  банка (Directives 2013/30/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 on public procurement and on the environmental protection of the Union and repealing Council Directive 2002/9/EC (Official Journal L 338 of 1 January 2013).
last update 04.02.2019



Summary 31:
European integrated border management (EIBM)
European integration of borders
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2019/852 establishing a European integrated Border Management Agency
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes a European Union (EU) Agency for the coordination, monitoring and protection of fundamental rights.
It sets up the European Border and Coast Guard Agency.
KEY POINTS
The regulation sets out the tasks of the agency:
coordinating and monitoring the EU’s external borders;
monitoring and protecting the fundamental rights of EU citizens;
ensuring that EU countries’ border guards and return-related personnel are properly trained and equipped;
providing the European Commission with information and expertise on border management.
The agency is based in Warsaw, Poland. It is managed by an executive director and a management board. The executive director is appointed by the Commission. It may not delegate to the executive board tasks related to decisions that must be passed by a majority of two thirds of the management board and must be confirmed by the European Parliament and the Council of the EU.
Agency liaison officers are based in each EU country. They are responsible for the following tasks:
assisting the national coordination centre in the coordination and monitoring of EU border control operations;
collecting, analysing and analysing information on EU borders and border control systems;
operating the European situational picture of EU countries;
carrying out joint operations for the purposes of the European border control system;
reporting on the capabilities and capabilities of the Agency;
the coordination of information exchange between national border control authorities and EU countries.
EU countries must ensure that their national coordination centres are equipped with:
a national situational picture;
a database of national border security information;
training of border guard and return staff;
an annual report on the Agency’S capabilities.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULATIONS APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 January 2019.
BACKGROUND
The European Union has adopted a number of implementing acts on the European integration of border management, including:
Implementing act (EC) No 552/2014 on the establishment of the EIBM;
Implementation act (EEC) 2018/853 on the creation of the Executive Board of the Commission;
Regulating (EU/EU) 2019-2024 on the setting up of a European Integrated Border Control Agency (EICB) (see summary).
KEY TERMS
* European border management: a system of border controls that aims to ensure that the EU has effective border management at all points of entry, exit and transit, i.e. the broadest possible geographical basis.
* Schengen: the area of the external borders of all EU countries where there is a free movement of persons, goods and services between them.
ACT
 
  банка градарска   нарка (European Parliament and Council) Regulation (EU), Euratom, No 752/2018 of 5 January 2019 establishing the European Union Agency for Coordination, Monitoring and Protection of Fundamental Rights (OJ L 131, 7.3.2019, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EUC) No 753/2018 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Council Implementing Act (EU).
-
OJ C 130, 18.5.2019.
RELATED ACTS
Commission Implementing Decision 2014/854/EU of 27 June 2014 on the drawing up of an implementing act for the European integrated border control Agency (OICB).
Commission Regulation (EC, Eurat) No 853/2014 of 27 May 2014 establishing the Commission Directorate-General for Migration and Border Control.
See consolidated version.
Commission Decision (Euratom) 2014/743 of 27 April 2014 establishing a Commission Directorate General for Migration, Border Control and Integration.
last update 04.02.2020



Summary 32:
European Network of Information Systems Security Assurance Assurance (ENISA)
European Network for Information Systems Assurance
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 1025/2012 on the European network for cybersecurity
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets up a European network of information security assurance bodies, known as ENISA.
It aims to ensure that cybersecurity policies are based on well-developed risk assessment methods, in both the public and private sectors.
KEY POINTS
The regulation sets up the European Network for Innovation and Innovation Assurance for Cybersecurity, which aims to:
ensure a high level of cybersecurity in the EU’s information and communications technology (ICT) sectors;
ensures that EU countries’ cybersecurity policies take account of the risks inherent in ICT systems;
provide for the exchange of information and best practice on cybersecurity between EU countries;
encourage the development of national cybersecurity certification systems.
ENISA is responsible for the implementation of the European cybersecurity certification system (ECSIS) and the certification of cybersecurity products and services. It is also responsible for ensuring that the EU cybersecurity certification framework is applied at EU level.
EnISA has a management board and an executive director. The Executive Director is appointed by the Management Board and is assisted by an Executive Director.
The Executive Director and the Executive Director are assisted by a National Liaison Officers Network.
A European Cybersecurity Certification Coordination Group (ECCG) is set up to ensure the consistent application of the ESS certification system. The ECCG is composed of representatives of national certification authorities or other relevant national authorities.
An advisory group is also established to advise the ENISA Advisory Board on cybersecurity issues.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULAWARD APPLYEARS OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
   
It entered into force on 28 June 2012.
BACKGROUND
The EU has adopted a number of cybersecurity legislation in recent years. These include:
Directive 2009/23/EC on cybersecurity (see summary);
Decision 2009/105/EC establishing a European cybersecurity network for Information and Communications Technology (See consolidated version.
For more information, see:
European network for information security (European Commission).
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Council Regulation (EC) No 526/2013
28.6.2013
-
OJ L 316 of 14.11.2013.
RELATED ACTS
Council Directive 2009/22/EC of 27 June 2009 establishing a network of Information and Communication Technology Assurance Agencies (NICA) (OJ C 202, 27.6-28.9.2009, pp. 1-8)
Council Decision 2009/24/EC and Decision 2010/24-EC of 28 June 2010 establishing a Network of European Information Security Experts (NISA) and repealing Council Decision 87/95/EEC and Council Decision No 1673/2006/EC.
Council Directives 94/9/EC, 94/25/EU, 95/16/EC) and 93/15/EC (Directive 2004/23-EC, 2004/22-EC and 2005/34/EC).
See consolidated versions.
last update 04.01.2016



Summary 33:
EU countries’ gross national income (GNI) at market prices (ESA 2010)
EU countries' gross national incomes (ESA2010)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 549/2013 on the harmonisation of Gross National Income at market price
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out the methodology for the calculation and transmission of Gross national income*.
It aims to improve the comparability, reliability and exhaustiveness of the European Union’s (EU, Euratom) Gross Gross Gross Domestic Product (GDP) data.
It repeals Directive 89/130/EEC and Regulation (EC) No 1287/2003.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies from 18 April 2019.
Before 1 October each year, EU countries must provide the European Commission (Eurostat) with figures for GNI aggregates and their components, in accordance with the definitions referred to in Article 1.
The data must be transmitted for the preceding year and any changes made to the data for previous years must be communicated at the same time. The data must comply with the relevant definitions and accounting rules of ESA 2010 and with the accounting rules set out in Annex A to the regulation.
Eurostat is responsible for transmitting the data to the European Parliament, the Council and the European Economic and Social Committee (ESC).
The Commission may, in the context of national accounting procedures, carry out statistical visits to EU countries to verify that the data comply with ESA 2010 accounting rules. In exercising its right to carry out such visits, the Commission must respect the rules on statistical confidentiality laid down in Article V of the EU Statutes.
In addition to these rules, Eurostat must ensure that:
the data are reliable, exhaustive and comparable;
the inventory and overloading of GNI data are consistent with the ESA 2010 rules;
there is no duplication or overloading in the GNI inventory and the data are up-to-date;
data are comparable across EU countries and that there is compliance with the applicable definitions.
Delegated acts
The European Parliament and the Council have delegated the power to adopt delegated acts to the Commission for a period of 5 years. The delegated acts enter into force only if no objection has been expressed either by the EU Parliament or by the Council within 2 months of notification of that act to them and if, before the expiry of that period, they have both informed the Commission that they will not object.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
It applies from 1 October 2019. EU countries had to incorporate it into national accounting rules by 1 October 2020.
BACKGROUND
GDP is the sum of gross value added of the various institutional sectors or the various industries plus taxes and less subsidies on products (which are not allocated to sectors and industries).
GNI is the average annual Gross Gross Income at Market Price at Gross Domestic Income at Gross Prices. It can be defined in three ways:
production approach: GDP minus primary income payable by resident institutional units to non-resident institutional units plus primary income receivable by resident institutions from the rest of the world;
income approach: Gross Gross Incomes at Gross Income (GGNI)* minus gross domestic product (GDI)* minus primary incomes receivable from non-residents.
For more information, see:
‘GDP at Market Prices’ on Eurostat's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Gross Gross Indicators: a measure of the gross value-added (GVA) of the economy of an EU country. It is calculated by taking into account:
Gross national income at gross prices;
gross domestic product: the total value of goods and services produced and traded in the economy;
primary income: the gross income of residents of a country.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Council Decision 2014/335/EU
18.4.2014
-
OJ L 7 of 19.3.2014.
Amending act(s)
Council Delegated Act (EU/549/2014)
1.1.2015
- The Commission adopts a delegated act to adopt the following delegated acts.
2.2.2016
3.3/2016
4.4/2017
5.5/2018
6.6/2019
7.7/2020
8.8/2021
9.6.2020
Last updated: 27.07.2015



Summary 34:
EU type-approval of vehicles, systems, components and separate technical units from the United Kingdom
EU type–type–approval requirements for vehicles and systems*, components, separate technical unit
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) 2019/852 — EU type–approvals of vehicles and components from outside the EU
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out rules for the granting of EU type‑approval* of vehicles*, systems, parts, components or separate technical* units of types not approved under the UK’s EU type‐approval.
It aims to ensure that EU type-approved vehicles and parts from the UK can continue to be sold in the EU market.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to:
vehicles, systems and components of types approved by the European Union type‐certification authority (EU type‐authorisation authority) in accordance with Directive 2007/46/EC (see summary);
separate technical units (e.g. engines, brakes, brakes and separate electrical units);
systems and components (including separate electronic control units).
Vehicles and components covered by the regulation must bear the type‐approved and marked as ‘EU type‑certified’ or ‘UK type‑approved’ markings on the vehicle, system or component.
Vehicle manufacturers must provide the European Commission with the following documentation and information:
the original UK type‐applicable vehicle, including all amendments, the information folder and the test reports;
the vehicle type‐the type‐number of the vehicle and its components, including the number of axles, wheels, tyres and brakes;
a certificate of conformity assessment and conformity assessment.
The technical service must be designated by the authority granting the type‑authorisation and notified by the EU Member State to the Commission.
If a vehicle is not covered by this regulation, the manufacturer must notify the competent authority of the Member State of the EU country in which it is registered and provide the technical service with all the necessary information.
A vehicle or system, system, component or separate electrical unit must be accompanied by a type‐recognition certificate. The certificate must contain the mention ‘Previously type‐ approved and marked‐as’ and refer to the type–approved mark received following the UK type–certification.
Where the manufacturer has not provided the technical services with the required information, it must inform the competent authorities in the Member States of its intention to do so.
In addition, the regulation sets out the conditions under which the EU type•approval authority may grant a Union type* approval to a vehicle or a system, systems or separate unit that does not comply with this regulation. The regulation does not apply to vehicles that have been placed on the market before 1 January 2008 or that have not been placed into service since 1 January 2013.
This regulation applies from 30 March 2019, unless the European Council, in agreement with the EU countries, unanimously decides to extend that period.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
   
It has applied since 30 February 2019.
BACKGROUND
The United Kingdom withdraws from the EU and becomes a third country (non-EU country) as of 1 January 2020.
For more information, see:
EU vehicle type–applicability (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Vehicle: any vehicle or component of a vehicle that has been approved by a European type‐control authority.
* System: any separate electrical or electronic control unit or separate electronic unit that has not been approved under this regulation and which has not yet entered into service.
MAIN DOCUMENT
 
  барскагандарка гранка (OJ L 94, 30.2.2019, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2019–852 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 04.02.2021



Summary 35:
European Police Office (Europol) — rules on cooperation between EU countries and Europol (Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 883/2013 on the European Police Office
European Police Organisation (Euratom)
SUMMARY OF:
Decision 2009/371/JHA on the establishment of a European police office
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out the rules governing cooperation between European Union (EU) countries’ law enforcement authorities and the European Union’s police office, Europol.
It replaces the Convention based on Article K.3 of the Treaty on European Union, on establishing a European Union police office.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to all EU countries, except Denmark, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway, Switzerland and the United Kingdom (1).
Each EU country must:
supply Europol with the information necessary for it to fulfil its objectives, including information relating to forms of crime the prevention or combating of which is considered a priority by the EU;
ensure effective communication and cooperation of all relevant competent authorities with Europol;
raise awareness of Europol's activities;
in accordance with national law, ensure compliance with the law when supplying information to Europol when supplying it.
EU countries may also participate in joint investigation teams.
In addition, EU countries may allow direct contacts between their national police units and the Europol, subject to prior involvement of the national unit.
Europol may directly exchange information, with the exception of personal data, with entities referred to in paragraph 1 of this regulation, in so far as such an exchange is relevant for the performance of its tasks.
The management board is composed of one representative from each EU country and one representative of the European Commission. It meets on the initiative of its Chairperson and is chaired by the Deputy Chairperson. The Executive Director is responsible for the day-to-day running of the management board and for the overall direction of the organisation.
Management Board
The Management Board:
is composed of representatives of the Member States;
is chaired by a representative of each Member State;
meets at least twice a year;
has the power to adopt opinions, guidelines, recommendations, recommendations and best practices.
Executive Director
The executive director is appointed by the European Parliament and the Council and is assisted by a Deputy Director. The executive director submits a report to the Management Board every 2 years on the organisation’S performance and its budget.
FROM WHEN DOES THE REGULE APPLY?
   
 
It has applied since 1 January 2013.
BACKGROUND
 Â  Â
  барсканскиг   гарка  харанка (Europolice) is the European police organisation responsible for preventing and combating organised crime. It was set up in 1993.
For more information, see:
Europolice (European External Action Service).
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Decision 2009/391/JHHA of 21 December 2009 on the creation of a Europol Convention (EuroPolice Convention) (OJ L 73, 22.2.2009, pp. 1-9)
Successive amendments to Decision 2009 /391/ JHA have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
  (1)
  The European Parliament adopted Regulation (EU), Euratom, No 882/2013 of 22 December 2013 on the exchange of information between the European External Action Services and the Directorate-General for Internal Affairs (DG for Justice) (Official Journal Euratom).
  This regulation repeals Regulation (EC) No 552/2008 of the Council of the EU and of the Parliament of the Netherlands (Official JHA).
See consolidated version.
Council Implementing Decision 2013/852/EU of 23 December 2013 establishing a framework for cooperation between the Director-General of the Directorate General for Justice, the European Anti-Fraud Office and the Office of the Prosecutor General of the Court of Justice of the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy.
last update 04.01.2016



Summary 36:
EU financial assistance for countries affected by the COVID-19 outbreak (2020-2021) (SARS-CoV-2 and SARS coronavirus-2) (Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2018/1046)
European Union (EU) financial assistance to countries in difficulties or seriously threatened with severe difficulties caused by exceptional occurrences beyond its control (SARV-2020) (Council Regulation (EU).
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation(EU) No 1046/2020 on the European Union’s financial assistance instrument
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes a European Union financial instrument (EUFinance Instrument) to provide assistance to EU countries in the event of an exceptional occurrence beyond their control.
It allows the EU to provide financial assistance under exceptional circumstances.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to all EU countries, except the United Kingdom (1), which is not eligible for financial assistance because of its withdrawal from the EU.
EU countries may request EU financial assistance where:
their actual and possibly also planned public expenditure has suddenly and severely increased as of 1 February 2020 due to national measures directly related to short‐time work schemes and similar measures to address the socio-economic effects of the exceptional occurrence caused by the outbreak of the coronaviruses;
their gross national income (GNI) has fallen below €100 000 000 000 for the period from 1 January 2020 to 30 March 2020;
the number of deaths from the outbreak in the EU has exceeded 22,000;
there has been a significant increase in the number of cases of the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronaviral diseases.
The European Commission may call on calls on guarantees from EU countries to provide the EU with financial assistance. The Commission must inform the EU countries about the extent to which the margin has been drawn.
Beneficiaries may use financial assistance primarily in support of their national short-time work programmes or similar measures, and, where applicable, in the support of relevant health-related measures.
Contributions to the Instrument are provided in the form of irrevocable, unconditional and on-demand guarantees.
FROM WHEN DOES THE REGULE APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 February 2019.
BACKGROUND
 
The COVID outbreak was declared a pandemic by the World Health Organization (WHO) on 8 May 2020.
For more information, see:
‘CoVID-2020’ on the EU’�s website.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation of 18 July 2018 on the Instrument for European Union Financial Assistance to Countries in Difficulty or is seriously Threatened with Severe Difficulty caused by an Exceptional Occurrence beyond its Control (COVID-2019) (OJ L 183, 30.7.2018, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EC) No 552/2018 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
  Implementing Regulation (Euratom) No 605/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 May 2014 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union (O J L 283, 20.6.2014, p. 1)
See consolidated version.
Commission Decision 2014/852/EU of 30 March 2014 establishing the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF).
last update 04.02.2020



Summary 37:
EU financial markets: clearing of financial derivatives and clearing of credit default swaps (CDSs)
EU Financial Markets: Clearing of Financial Derivatives and Credit Default Swaps (CCDS)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) 2021/23 on the clearing and settlement of credit derivatives and credit default swap transactions
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out the rules for the establishment and functioning of the European financial markets.
It aims to ensure that the EU’s financial markets remain stable and orderly.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to all financial derivatives* and credit derivatives* traded in the EU. It covers:
listed and over-the-counter (OTC) financial and commodity derivatives, cash equities, bonds and other products such as repos;
cash equities* and repurchase agreements*;
counterparties* and investors* with exposure to these products.
Suspension of the trading obligation
EU countries may suspend the trading obligations of a CCP if it is necessary to preserve financial stability and market confidence and to prevent counterparties and investors having high and uncertain risk exposures to a CCP. The suspension should be of a temporary nature with a possibility of extension.
Implementing act
The implementing act sets out a procedure for the suspension of trading obligations. It applies from 12 August 2022 with the exception of:
the clearing obligation which shall apply from 4 July 2020;
the suspension of the OTC derivatives trading obligation from 11 February 2021.
Resolution authorities
the resolution authorities, resolution colleges and the resolution authorities.
the European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA).
The resolution authorities are responsible for the resolution of CCPs that fail to comply with the requirements of the regulation.
The European Banking Authority (EBA) and the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority are also involved in the resolution process.
Responsibilities of resolution authorities
The competent authorities and resolution authorities must:
ensure that CCPs comply with all relevant EU rules;
prepare and implement recovery and resolution plans;
coordinate their activities with the relevant national authorities;
cooperate with the European Banking Supervisory College and the competent national authorities in the event of a failure of the CCP;
take all necessary measures to prevent or address a serious threat to financial stability or the orderly functioning of financial markets in the European Union (EU).
EU Member States must also ensure that appropriate resources are allocated to those resolution authorities and to the resolution colleges.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
From 12 August 2023.
BACKGROUND
The EU has a number of cross-border financial services providers. They provide services across national borders to a broad range of financial and other institutions across the EU, including banks, insurance companies, investment firms and other financial institutions.
In addition, the regulation sets out rules on:
clearing and settlement obligations for CCPs;
recovery and resolution planning;
preparation and resolution procedures.
For more information, see:
‘Clearance and settlement procedures for credit derivatives’ on the European Commission's website.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Commission Implementing Act
12.8.2022
-
OJ L 210 of 12.8 August 2022
RELATED ACTS
Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 1094/2010 of 27 June 2010 on the establishment of a European Financial Markets Supervisory Authority and repealing Regulation (EC) No 596/2004 (OJ C 202, 28.7.2010, pp. 1-8)
Regulations (EC, EFSA, EBA, EIOPA, ESMA, EFSO, EBC and EBC) No 652/2008, (ECB, EEC, EBSO, EC, EC and EC) No 752/2009, (EBSO) No 852/2010 and (EC), EBC, ECSO and EC (EBC), (EC).
Commission Regulation (Euratom, EEA, EFC, ECC, EASO and ESMA Implementing Decision No 653/2008 of 28.6.2008 establishing the European Financial Market Supervisory Agency (EFSO) and repealing Council Regulation (CFSP) No 496/2008 (EC);
Commission Decision No 756/2008 establishing a European Securities Supervisory Office (ESMO) (EEC) (EC; EC; EBC);
Council Decision No 853/2009 establishing a Single Supervisory Mechanism for the Single Resolution Mechanism (SMSM) (EU; EC);
Directive 2014/33/EU of 27 May 2014 establishing a single resolution mechanism for the early intervention and resolution of credit defaults.
Council Directive 2014/34/EC of



Summary 38:
European Year of Rail (EU) 2021
European Year 2021
SUMMARY OF:
Decision 2021/852/EU — European Year of rail
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DECISION?
   
 
It establishes the European Year 2021 as the European Union’s (EU’S) ‘European year of rail’.
It aims to promote rail transport in line with the objectives set out in the communication on the European Green Deal, including with regard to sustainable and smart mobility.
KEY POINTS
The year 2021 will be important for the Union rail policy, since it will represent the first full year where the rules agreed under the Fourth Railway Package will be implemented throughout the Union, namely on the opening of the market of domestic passenger services, on reducing costs and administrative burden for railway undertakings operating across the Union and on providing the European European Union Agency for Railways (ERA) with additional tasks that aim to lower technical barriers.
The European Year will also be the first year in which the European Commission will establish a European label to promote goods and products transported by rail so as to encourage businesses to switch their transport to rail.
In addition, the Commission will set up key performance indicators to monitor the implementation of this decision. The Commission will inform the European Parliament and the Council of its plans by 31 March 2021. Representatives of the EU countries may participate in those meetings as observers.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS DECISION APPLY?
The decision applies from 1 January 2021.
BACKGROUND
The EU is a climate-neutral society. It aims to transform the EU into a fair and prosperous society with a modern, resource-efficient and competitive economy where there are no net emissions of greenhouse gases in 2050 and where economic growth is decoupled from resource use.
For more information, see:
European Green Deal (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Passenger: a person travelling by rail to, from, or from, a place of residence or business.
* Rail: a means of transport used for the transport of people and essential goods.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Decision 2021/884/EU of 15 January 2021 on the designation of the year 2021 as a European year for rail (OJ L 149 of 28.3.2021, pp. 1-8)
RELATED DOCUMENTS
Communication from the Commission to the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions: ‘Sustainable and Smart Mobility: European Year for Rail’ (COM(2020) 609 final, 31.12.2020)
Communications from the European Council, European Parliament, European Commission and the European Atomic Energy Community on the EU's 2020-2030 transport strategy (COM-2020) (COM) 605 final, 30.11.2020)
last update 04.02.2022



Summary 39:
European Security and Defence College (ESDC) (CFSPD)
European security and defence college
SUMMARY OF:
Decision (CFPS) 2016/2382 establishing a European Security and defence College
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DECISION?
It establishes a European security and defense college.
It repeals and repeals Joint Action 2008/550/CFSP.
KEY POINTS
The ESDC is the European Union’s (EU) training and education centre for law enforcement and defence. It is responsible for providing training and training-related activities in the field of law enforcement, defence and security.
The decision establishes the ESDC with the aim of:
establishing close links with the EU institutions and relevant EU agencies, in particular with, but not limited to:
the European Border and Coast Guard Agency (FRONTEX) and the European Defence Agency (EDA) and with the European Satellite Centre (EU SatCen);
supporting the European Alumni Association (EUISS);
cooperating with and drawing on the expertise of international organisations and other relevant actors, such as the European Training and Education institutes of third countries;
drawing on the experience and expertise of national training centres of non-EU countries.
Organisation
The Council appoints a steering committee, chaired by a representative of the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy (HR). It is composed of representatives of the EU countries and chaired by the European Parliament and the Council. The head is appointed by the Council and is assisted by the Executive Academic Board. The ESDC has a secretariat. The Secretariat provides support to the Steering Committee, to the Board including its configurations and to institutes for the management, coordination and organisation of ESDC. The Head of the Executive Board is appointed on the basis of a pre-selection process. The High Representative and the Vice-President of the Council are responsible for appointing the head of the Board and the Secretariat.
A steering committee is set up by the Head and comprises representatives of EU countries. It prepares a draft budget for the following financial year and submits it to the Council by 31 July. The Council adopts the draft budget by 31 December. The budget is then approved by the Standing Committee.
Cooperation
The European Union Agency for Law Enforcement Training (CEPOL) and Europol provide technical assistance and technical support for ESDC activities. The EUISS provides financial support for research and other projects in the area of CFSP. In addition, the EUISS supports ESDC Alumni Associations. The European Union Institute for Defence Education and Training (EUIDET) provides technical support to ESDC in the areas of training, education and research.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS DECISION APPLY?
   
It has applied since 22 April 2016.
BACKGROUND
 
  *  Â  *   * * 
For more information, see:
European Union training and defence colleges (European External Action Service).
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Decision 2016/2482 of 23 April 2016 establishing a new European Security & Defence College and repealing Council Decision 2008/541/EC (OJ L 127, 30.4.2016, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Decision (CFSS) 2016-2482 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
 Â
  �   барска  харка гара  г  гала 
Council Directive 2014/856/EU of 27 March 2014 establishing a framework for the establishment of a European Union Training and Training College (EUTC) (Codified version) and repealing Decision 2013/189/CFPS (Official Journal L 112, 24.5.2014, p. 22)
See consolidated version.
last update 04.02.2019



Summary 40:
Reused water: water reuse
Reclaimed water: Water reuse
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 552/2020 on the use of reclaimed water for agricultural irrigation
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out rules on the reuse of water from urban and agricultural sources.
It aims to protect the environment and human and animal health by ensuring that water is reused for agricultural and urban purposes.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to:
reclaimed water* used for agricultural purposes;
reused water used for urban and rural drinking water;
water used for drinking, bathing, bathing and sanitary purposes; and
water reused for drinking and bathing.
EU countries must ensure that:
the water reuse risk management plan is established by the reclamation facility operator;
the competent authority in charge of the water reuse plan is responsible for drawing up and implementing the plan.
The plan must be updated every 2 years. It must include:
a description of the risks associated with water reuse;
a list of the types of water used;
measures to be taken to reduce the risk of contamination;
details of the methods and methods of water reuse.
In addition, the plan must include a description of how the plan is to be implemented.
Risk management measures must be in place to prevent, reduce and minimise the impact of the reuse on the environment, including:
pollutants, e.g. micro-organisms, eutrophilic bacteria, echinoderms, and e.
the impact of water pollution on human health.
a risk assessment must be carried out every 5 years.
A risk assessment plan must also be established for each type of water use.
Annex I to the regulation sets out the minimum requirements for water quality and the key elements of risk management.
If a water reuse system is used for agriculture, the authority responsible for it must:
ensure that the water is treated and reused at very low rates (2–20 litres/hour) from a system of small-diameter plastic pipes with outlets called emitters or drippers;
assess the water’s quality, including the presence of microorganisms;
establish a monitoring system to assess the performance of the system;
monitor the water quality class with the most stringent requirements, Class A, to assess whether the performance targets (log10 reduction) are complied with;
set performance targets for Class B and Class C, based on the results of a risk assessment carried out by the competent authority.
Where water is used to irrigate crops, it must be treated, treated, reused and used in accordance with the rules set out in Annex II.
To ensure that water reuse is not adversely affected by pollution, EU countries must take measures to prevent and reduce the spread of micro-plastics and other substances of emerging concern. These measures must include measures to: ensure that the plan for water reuse and the monitoring system are in place;ensure water quality monitoring is carried out;establish a risk management system for the water used in agricultural irrigation;establish monitoring systems to monitor the water treatment and reuse of agricultural water.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
The legislation applies from 13 May 2020. EU countries had to incorporate it into national law by 13 May 2021.
BACKGROUND
The European Commission has published a report on the implementation of the regulation.
For more information, see:
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of entry into force
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2019/852
13.5.2020
-
OJ L 94 of 13.5-19.2019
Amending act(s)
Entry in force
Date of transposition into force (OJ C 110 of 22.3.2019, pp. 1-2)
RELATED ACTS
Commission Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 652/2014 of 13 May 2014 on the water management of water resources and on the management of the risk associated with the water supply and use of water (Official Journal L 140 of 14.6.2014).
Directive 2007/2/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 April 2007 on the sharing of spatial information, including data sets on different environmental topics.
Communication from the Commission to European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee, the Committee of the Regions and the European Atomic Energy Community (COM(2013) 596 final of 29.4.2013).
See consolidated version.
last update 04.01.2020



Summary 41:
EU blue card for highly qualified third-country workers — rules for their mobility within the EU (2018-2023)
European blue card: rules for the mobility of highly qualified workers
SUMMARY OF:
Directive (EU) 2018/2023 on the right of citizens of the European Union and their family members to move and reside freely within the Union
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DIRECTIVE?
It aims to ensure that highly qualified non-EU citizens and their families have the right to live and work freely in the EU.
It sets out the rules for granting and renewing an EU blue card.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The directive applies to all EU citizens, their families and their associates who have been granted an EU Blue Card. It does not apply to:
non-EU nationals who are already resident in another EU country;
EU citizens who have already been granted a blue card and who wish to remain in that EU country.
EU Blue Card holders must have a valid EU card valid for at least 24 months. It is valid for a maximum of 2 years. It may be renewed for an additional period of up to 5 years, depending on the number of years of continuous employment.
The holder must be able to work in the territory of the EU country in which they are admitted and have the necessary documents and information to prove that they meet the admission criteria.
They must be admitted to the labour market of the country of origin and be accompanied by their employer.
Employment
The employer must provide the holder with:
a complete application for a job,
a statement of the employer’s identity,
the number of employees
a description of the company and the occupation
a list of the sectors, occupations and regions in which the holder is allowed to engage.
If an employer does not provide the necessary information, the holder may be refused admission.
When an employer fails to provide the required information, it may be considered a threat to public health or to public order.
An employer may be subject to sanctions for failing to comply with this directive.
In addition, EU countries may apply a simplified recognition procedure for employers.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS DIRECTIVE APPLYEARS OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
   
It entered into force on 18 November 2018. EU countries had to incorporate it into national law by 18 November 2023.
BACKGROUND
The European Commission has published a report on the implementation of the directive. It found that the directive has been largely successful in improving the mobility and integration of highly skilled workers.
For more information, see:
‘EU blue cards’ on the European Commission's website.
* KEY TERMS
* EU Blue card: a permanent residence permit issued by an EU country to a highly skilled worker who has been admitted to its labour market.
ACT
Council Directive (EEC) No 549/2013 of 18 November 2013 establishing a European Union blue card (OJ L 75, 10.3.2013, pp. 1-8)
last update 04.02.2018



Summary 42:
EU migration fund: 2020-2029
EU migration finance
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2018/1046 establishing the European Union Migration Fund
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes a European Union (EU) Migration Fund.
It aims to support EU countries’ efforts to integrate and integrate migrants and refugees.
KEY POINTS
The fund is funded by the EU budget and is managed by the European Commission. It is designed to:
contribute to the implementation of the EU’s common migration policy;
provide financial support to EU countries in order to maintain capabilities which are crucial for tasks and services which constitute a public service for the EU as a whole;
support the activities of the European Migration Network (EMN), the European Border and Coast Guard Agency (BERCA) and the European Asylum and Migration Agency (EMSA).
The European Commission is responsible for managing the fund.
EU countries must submit to the Commission annual performance reports covering the latest accounting year. These must include qualitative and quantitative indicators. They must also report to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions.
The Commission must:
monitor the performance of the fund;
ensure that EU funding is used for the benefit of EU countries;
report to the Council every 3 years on the progress made by EU countries and the Commission on the use of EU funding;
take decisions on the allocation of EU funds.
FROM WHEN DOES THE LEGULATION APPLY?
Funding for the Fund has applied since 1 January 2018.
From 1 January 2019.
BACKGROUND
The EU Migration Fund is one of the main instruments of the common EU migration policy. It was established under Regulation (EC) No 1296/2013.
For more information, see:
European Union migration fund (European Commission).
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (Euratom) No 1046/2018/EU of 18 July 2018 establishing the EU migration fund and repealing Council Directive 2004/114/EC of 13 December 2004 on the conditions of admission of third-country nationals for the purposes of studies, pupil exchange, unremunerated training or voluntary service (OJ L 375, 23.12.2018, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EU Euratom, Euratom) No 1080/2013 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
Council Decision 2008/381/EC on the establishment of an EU Migration Network and repealing Decision No 541/2014/EU and Decision No 966/2012 on the European border management action plan for the period 2014-2020
Council Directive 2014/22/EU establishing a European Border Guard Agency for the duration of the Common Migration Policy (CMS) and repealing Directives 2004/113/EC, 2004/115/EC and 2004/116/EC (OCT) No 552/2004 (OXC 202, 30.7.2014, pp.).
See consolidated version.
Commission Implementing Decision 2014/23/EU amending Council Directive 2005/966/EC establishing an EU Border Management Action Plan for the Period 2014-2023 and repealing Directive 2004 /114/EU (OEC 202, 31.7-31.2014).
See summary.
last update 04.02.2022



Summary 43:
Paternity and carers’ leave: equal treatment between men and women in the workplace (Directive 2019/24/EU on paternity and carer’s leave and parental leave for workers)
Paternity (and carers' leave)
SUMMARY
WHAT DOES THIS DIRECTIVE DO?
It sets out minimum rules for the provision of paternity and childcare leave in the European Union (EU).
It aims to improve the balance between working and family life.
KEY POINTS
EU countries must ensure that:
paternity leave is taken around the time of the birth of the child and should be clearly linked to the birth for the purposes of providing care;
each worker has the right to 5 working days of paternity leave per year.
Each worker is entitled to a maximum of 4 months of parental leave. This is divided into 10 working days, expressed in working weeks or other time units, taking into account that ten working days correspond to two calendar weeks.
The duration of this leave is calculated according to the number of consecutive fixed-term contracts that a worker has had with the same employer.
Employers must:
accept or refuse a request for parental leave in ways other than on a full-time basis;
ensure that workers who exercise their right to parental leave receive a payment or an allowance for the duration of the leave;
provide flexible working arrangements to allow them to remain in the workforce;
allow one parent to transfer to the other parent more than two months out of the four months of the parental leave provided for in this directive.
In addition, EU countries may determine additional details regarding the scope and conditions of carers leave in accordance with national law or practice.
FROM WHEN DOES THE DIRECTIVE APPLACE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
The directive entered into force on 2 August 2019. EU countries had to incorporate it into national law by 2 August 2022.
BACKGROUND
The European Commission has published a report on the implementation of the directive. It found that the directive has not yet been fully implemented in all EU countries.
For more information, see:
‘Parental leave’ on the European Commission's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Paternity leave: a period of unpaid leave taken by a man or woman for the purpose of providing for the care of a child.
ACT
Directive (EU) 2019/23/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 April 2019 on the right of the Member States to provide for the equitable treatment of men (Paternity Directive) and of women (Caring Leave Directive).
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member State
Official Journal
Council Directive 2011/22/EU
2.6.2019
-
OJ L 183 of 22.5.2011
RELATED ACTS
Report from the Commission to the Council, European Parliament, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions on implementing the Directive on the equal treatment of women and men in the labour market (COM(2018) 596 final of 30.4.2018)
Report of the Commission on the application of the Directive in the field of employment and social protection of the rights of workers in the context of the promotion of women to the role of a parent in the family.
Last updated: 27.07.2018



Summary 44:
Fraud and other criminal offences affecting the EU’s financial interests
Fraud
SUMMARY OF:
Directive (EU) 2017/849 on the protection of the European Communities’ financial interests (Financial Instruments Directive)
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DIRECTIVE?
It establishes minimum rules relating to the definition of criminal offences and sanctions in the area of fraud affecting the Union's financial interests.
It aims to prevent and combat fraud and other forms of illegal activities at the expense of the EU's financial interest.
KEY POINTS
EU countries must take the necessary measures to enable the investigation, prosecution, trial and judicial decision of offences that are punishable by a maximum sanction of at least 4 years of imprisonment for at least 5 years from the time when the offence was committed. These sanctions must be effective, proportionate, dissuasive and dissuasive.
The directive applies to:
fraud affecting the financial interests of EU institutions, bodies, offices or agencies;
any expenditure in connection with the public contracts determined by Article 101(1) of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012;
public procurement-related expenditure;
all revenue arising from VAT own resources.
Exemptions
The Directive does not apply to the following criminal offences:
any offence that is committed for the benefit of a legal person established in the territory of an EU country, or for the purpose of the exercise of its official duty.
any other criminal offence which does not require intention.
the offender is a habitual resident in the EU country and is not covered by this directive.
Any offence which is committed by a natural person or by a person acting in his or her official duty is covered by the directive. However, EU countries may decide to extend its jurisdiction to criminal offences which have been committed outside its territory in any of the following situations:
when the offender is an individual or a legal entity established in its territory;
when an offence is committed on behalf of an official of a national authority;
where the offender acts in the official capacity of a public authority.
Sanctions
The EU countries must ensure that the maximum sanction for the offences referred to in this directive is at least four years’ imprisonment. The maximum sanction may be reduced to a maximum of 3 years if the offence has been committed for a period of more than 5 years.
Where a country does not provide for an explicit threshold for considerable damage or advantage as a basis for a maximum penalty, it must take into account that the amount of damage and advantage is taken into account by its courts in the determination of sanctions for fraud.
Cooperation between the EU countries and the European Commission (OLAF) and other EU institutions and bodies
The Commission must cooperate with the national authorities of EU countries in order to identify, investigate, prosecute and bring to justice those who commit, commit or attempt to commit, or are involved in committing, offences affecting EU funds.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS DIRECTIVE APPLY?
The European Parliament and the Council adopted it on 6 July 2017. EU countries had to incorporate it into national law by 6 July 2019.
BACKGROUND
The Financial Instruments Directive (FID) is one of a series of legal instruments designed to protect the European Union (EU). The other instruments are Regulation (EC) No 2988/95 (see summary) and Directive 2009/13/EC.
For more information, see:
‘Fraud’ and ‘Other Criminal Offences’ (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
Act
Entry into force
Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal: 6.7.2017
OJ L 183, 6.8.2017, pp. 1-5
RELATED ACTS
Council Directive (EU), Euratom, of 6 July 2009 on the prevention and combatting of fraud, other types of illegal activity affecting the European Community's Financial Interests (Financial Instrument Directive) (Official Journal L 94, 7.6.2009, p. 1)
See consolidated version.
Commission Implementing Decision 2009/14/EC of 27 June 2009 on a European Union action plan for combating fraud, corruption, money laundering and terrorist financing.
last update 04.02.2019



Summary 45:
EU rules on cross-border card-based payment transactions (EU-wide rules on merchant fees) (EU countries’ national rules on card fees and charges)
EU countries' rules on transnational card-by-card payments (EU country rules on user charges and fees)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) 2015/865 on the harmonisation of EU rules on the charging of merchant fees and fees for card based payment transactions
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to harmonise the charges charged by merchants and consumers for the payment instruments they accept.
It sets out the rules that must be applied to all card-related transactions, including:
transactions with commercial cards;
cash withdrawals at automatic teller machines or at a payment service provider’s counter;
cross-border transactions with payment cards issued by three party payment card schemes.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to the following types of transactions: transactions with commercial and payment card issuers and payment service providers, including cash withdrawals, cash withdrawals and cash withdrawals at automated tellers or at the counter of a payment services provider;
payment card transactions issued by a payment card scheme.
The legislation does not apply to:
payments made by a merchant to a third party (e.g. a bank) or to a non-governmental organisation; or
payee payments made by an individual.
In addition, the regulation does not cover the following:
co-badging and choice of payment brand or payment application;
of payment application.
Co-related fees
Payment service providers must charge merchants for the right to accept a payment instrument issued by the same issuer.
Payments must be made in the currency of the EU country in which the payment instrument is issued. The fees charged must be the same as those charged for the corresponding payment within the country where the payment was made. The regulation also sets out a limit on the amount of fees that can be charged for each type of payment instrument. The limit is set by the European Commission. The reference period for the first calculation of such value is 15 calendar months before the date of application of paragraphs 2 and 3 and shall end 3 calendar months after that date.
EU country authorities must ensure that the fees charged by the merchant are calculated in accordance with the EU’S national rules.
Where a payment is made in another EU country, the payment provider must charge the same amount for the same type of transaction. The European Commission must publish a report every 3 years on the implementation of the regulation.
Consumers must be informed of the fees paid by merchants for each payment instrument they use. This information must be displayed prominently at the entrance of the shop and at the till. The Commission must collect the information required to establish this report and cooperate closely with the authorities for the collection of data. EU countries must also ensure that payment services users have access to out-of-court complaint and redress procedures or take equivalent measures in the event of disputes between payment service users and payment services providers.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
The EU country implementing the regulation has to incorporate it into national law by 9 June 2015. It applies from 8 June 2015, with the exception of Articles 3, 4, 6 and 12, which shall apply from 9 December 2015, and of Articles 7, 8, 9 and 10, which will apply from9 June 2016.
BACKGROUND
The European Union has adopted a number of measures to improve the functioning of the internal market for electronic payments. These include:
Delegated Regulation (EC) No 924/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2011 establishing the principle that charges paid by users for a payment in euro are the same for the equivalent payment within a Member State including cross-Border payments;
Regulations (EC, Euratom) No 552/2013 and (EC), No 553/2013 establishing the European Union rules on consumer charges and charges for the use of electronic payment cards and on fees charged for cross-EU payment transactions;
Directive 2011/83/EU on the establishment of a single European Union payment card system (see summary).
The new regulation is part of the effort to modernise the EU payment system and to establish a single market for all types of payment instruments.
For more information, see:
European Union rules for the electronic payment system (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Commercial card: a card that is issued by one or more issuers.
* Payment service provider: a provider of payment services.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EU, EU countries) No 865/2015 of 20 April 2015 laying down the general principles for the harmonization of the charges and the fees payable by users of payment cards to merchants and payment providers for the processing of payment transactions in the Member States (OJ L 304, 9.6



Summary 46:
Europass — validation of non-formal and informal learning
Europass – validation of skills and qualifications
SUMMARY OF:
Decision (EU) 2018/852 on the European Union’s validation of qualifications and skills
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DECISION?
It aims to facilitate the validation of the knowledge, skills and competences of individuals who have been acquired through learning, validated, and to obtain a full qualification, or, where applicable, partial qualification.
KEY POINTS
The decision sets out the criteria and procedures for the validation and assessment of qualifications.
It applies to all EU citizens who wish to move to another EU country and to employers wishing to recruit workers from other EU countries.
The validation of these qualifications is based on the Qualification Evaluation Framework (EQF), which is a standardised set of assessment and validation methods used by EU countries to assess and validate qualifications. It also covers skills obtained through education and training, youth work and volunteering.
EU countries are responsible for the implementation of this decision at national level through the relevant national services and without prejudice to national arrangements in terms of implementation and organisation.
In addition, the decision establishes a European network of employment services (EURES), which provides free assistance to jobseekers, employers and jobseekers’ access to mobility services, and assists employers in recruiting workers from non-EU countries. The Europass portal also provides information on qualifications and training systems in EU countries, as well as on job vacancies.
EURES portals provide users with a wide range of information, such as job vacancies, job vacancies and training opportunities, and qualifications. The portal also allows jobseekers to complete their CVs in standardised formats.
Users have the option to store their personal data on the Europass online platform. This information can be used to:
assess and validate their qualifications;
provide employers with information on the qualifications they have acquired;
ensure that employers have access to the information they need to make a decision on a job applicant;
make it easier for jobseekers and employers to find suitable candidates.
A Europass portfolio comprises five document templates:
the Europass Curriculum Vitae (CV);
the Qualifications template;
the qualifications template; and
the qualification template.
Each EU country is responsible for implementing this decision through its national services.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS DECISION APPLY?
From 1 January 2019.
BACKGROUND
The European Commission has adopted a number of initiatives aimed at improving the quality of education, training and vocational education in the EU. These include the creation of Europass, which is an online information system designed to assist jobseekers in their search for a job.
For more information, see:
‘Qualifications and skills’ on Europass’ website.
* KEY TERMS
* Qualifications: skills acquired through education or training, training or volunteering, or through youth work.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Council Decision No 852/2018/EU
1.1.2019
-
OJ L 183 of 1.1-2.2019.
RELATED ACTS
Council Recommendation of 20 December 2012 inviting Member States to have in place, by 2018, in accordance with national circumstances and specificities, and as they deem appropriate, arrangements for the verification of qualifications, and for the full qualification or partial qualification, which enable individuals to have their knowledge and skills and competence, acquired through non-forms of learning validated.
Regulation (EC) No 1296/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 April 2013 on the qualification and training of youth and volunteering and amending Regulations (Euratom) No 492/2011 and (EU).
Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2016/589 of 16 April 2016 establishing a European Network of Employment Services (EuroES) and repealing Council Regulation (EURO) No 496/2011 (OJ C 173, 31.5.2016, pp. 45-48).
See consolidated version.
Council Directive (EU), Euratom, of 27 June 2016 establishing the European network for employment services and amends Council Directive (EURE) No 483/2011.
last update 04.02.2019



Summary 47:
Statistics concerning the transport of goods by inland waterways (codified version)
Statistics concerning:
Transport of goods through inland waterways
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 1365/2006 on the collection and transmission of inland waterways statistics
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It codifies and repeals Regulation (EU) No 223/2009 on inland waterways.
It aims to improve the quality and comparability of EU-wide transport statistics.
KEY POINTS
EU countries must send the European Commission (Eurostat) a report containing such information and data as it may request in order to verify the quality of the data transmitted.
Eurostat must transmit the data to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions every 5 years.
The Commission has the power to:
delegate the statistical powers delegated to it by EU countries for the collection, transmission and analysis of inland waterway transport statistics;
use these powers to monitor and develop the common transport policy, as well as the transport elements of policies on the regions and on trans-European networks.
Delegated acts are adopted in accordance with the implementing acts contained in the annexes to the regulation. The Commission must justify the statistical actions for which those delegated acts provide, using, where appropriate, a cost-effectiveness analysis, including an assessment of the burden on respondents and of the production costs as referred to in Article 14(3)(c) of the regulation (Article 14(2) of Regulation (EC).
The European Commission must draw up a report in respect of the delegation of power not later than 9 months before the end of the 5-year period.
Each year, the Commission must submit a report to Eurostat with a summary of the information it has received from the EU countries. The report must include:
the number of vessel traffic (annual data);
the type of transport (international (except transit) and number of movements of loaded vessels and empty vessels;
the total number of vessels (Vessel-km, empty vessels) and vessels-km (vessel-km).
In addition to these data, Eurostat must also provide the Commission with:
a report on the number and type of vessels and the number of empty vessels used;
a description of the types of goods transported;
an estimate of the economic and social impact of the EU’s transport policy on the inland waterways sector.
In the event of a change in the number or type of vessel or vessel-kilometres used, EU countries must provide a report on that change, including:
number of vessels used, and the type of vehicle and vessel-km used, in the transport sector;
total number of vehicles and vessels used in the transportation sector; and
the volume of goods moved in the course of household and office removals; baggage transported separately from passengers; motor vehicles being moved for repair; other non-market goods moving for repair.
FROM WHEN DOES IT APPLY?
The regulation entered into force on 1 July 2018.
BACKGROUND
 
Inland waterways are the main means of transport in the European Union (EU). They constitute a significant part of the transport system and constitute a major source of revenue for the EU.
For more information, see:
‘Inland waterway statistics’ on Eurostat's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Inland waterways: the term ‘inland waterways’ is used to describe the means by which goods are transported across the EU by sea, air, rail, road, inland waterways and other modes of transport. It includes:
vehicle traffic (traffic in the form of: vessels, aircraft, trains, barges and other means of transportation;
transit (transit of goods between EU countries);
total movements of goods (vehicle movements and movements of empty vehicles);
movements of vehicles (vehicles, trains and other forms of transport).
* Vessel traffic: the total number and types of vehicles, including aircraft, ships and other types of transport, that are used to transport goods by water.
MAIN DOCUMENT
   
  барскаганка нарка (Codified Version) (OJ L 183, 1.7.2018, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EEC) no 1365-2006 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
  ARTICLE
  γαθηνικη (EU, Euratom) No 182/2011 on the transmission of statistics concerning the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) and on the European Maritime Safety Agency (EMSA) and amending Council Regulations (EC, EC, EEA) No



Summary 48:
Statistics at EU level on rail transport (Regulation (EU) 2017/852)
Statistics at Union level on railway transport (Recast)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation No 852/2017/EU on the transmission of EU-wide railway transport statistics
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out the rules for the collection, transmission and analysis of statistics on rail traffic in the European Union (EU).
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to all railways in the EU. It does not apply to the carriage of goods by rail.
Each EU country must report statistics which relate to rail transport on its national territory. These include:
total passenger-kilometre movements;
total train-km;
transit between two places (a place of loading/embarkation and a place of unloading/disembarking) outside the reporting country;
international transport;
traffic between a place (of loading or unloading) or international transport (between two places) in the reporting EU country and another place in another EU country.
EU countries must transmit the statistics referred to in the regulation’s annexes to Eurostat every year.
The European Commission must submit a report to the European Parliament, the Council and the European Economic and Social Committee on the implementation of the regulation every 3 years. This report must include information on the quality of the data transmitted, the data collection methods used and information on potential improvements and on users’ needs.
In addition, the Commission must publish a report every 2 years on the results of the statistical analyses carried out by the EU countries.
FROM WHEN DOES THE LEGULATION APPLY?
From 1 January 2017.
BACKGROUND
The EU has a single rail transport market. It is the largest single market in the world, with a total rail transport volume of over 100 million passenger-km.
For more information, see:
‘Rail transport statistics’ on the European Commission's website.
KEY TERMS
* Passenger: the number of passengers transported by rail over a distance of one kilometre.
* Train: the means of transport by rail of one or more persons.
MAIN DOCUMENT
   
  барганарка гранска  гланка:  ‘Rail Transport Statistics’ (OJ L 10, 1.2.2017, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 853/2017 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 04.02.2021



Summary 49:
Exemption from visa requirement for non-EU nationals of non-European Union (EU) countries: Schengen rules on non-visas (codified version) (SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 539/2001 on the application of the principle of reciprocity in the field of visa requirements
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out the conditions for the granting of an exemption from the visa requirement to nationals of one or more EU countries who are not nationals of an EU country.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to:
non-EU countries whose nationals are subject to a visa requirement when crossing the external borders of EU countries for more than 90 days;
third countries which are exempt from the requirement to be in possession of a visa when crossing their external borders.
It does not apply to the following countries:
the United Kingdom (1);
the Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland (2);
Ireland (3);
Sweden (4);
Iceland (5);
Norway (6);
Germany (7);
Austria (8);
France (9);
Spain (10);
Italy (11);
Belgium (12); and
Switzerland (13).
Exemptions from visa requirements:
EU countries’ nationals of Hong Kong, Hong Kong and Taiwan (1),
Hong Kong (2),
Seychelles (3) and
the Republic of Ireland (4),
the People’s Republic of Moldova (5) and the Kingdom of Norway (6) (7).
The European Commission adopts the implementing act within 1 month of receiving the notification from a simple majority of the EU countries of the existence of circumstances relating to the non-compliance with certain requirements.
The implementing act must be amended by the Commission within 30 days of receiving a report from the European Parliament, the Council or the European Economic and Social Committee of the European Union (EEU) on the implementation of the regulation. The Commission then adopts a delegated act to suspend the exemption for 90 days, taking into account the available resources in the consulates of the Member States and to amend Annex II accordingly.
If the Commission considers that the situation has changed as regards those criteria, it adopts an implementing act to extend the duration of the suspension for a period of 3 years.
In addition, the Commission must publish a report every 3 years on the status of the third countries which it considers, based on concrete and reliable information, to be no longer complying with the requirements. The report must focus on the countries which have been derogating from the obligation to grant a visa.
A delegated act may be adopted to suspend an exemption for up to 3 years if:
there is a substantial increase in the number of nationals of a third country who do not comply with the visa requirements;
the number of visa applications has increased by more than 50%.
The Commission must consult experts designated by each Member State in accordance with the principles laid down in the Interinstitutional Agreement of 13 April 2016 on Better Law-Making.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULATIONS APPLY?
   
It entered into force on 1 January 2019.
BACKGROUND
The EU has a visa-free travel policy for its nationals. It applies to all EU citizens who are:
traveling to, from, or staying in the territory of another Member State;
visa holders of a valid residence permit;
travelers who have a valid passport.
For more information, see:
Visa requirements (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Non-EU country: any country which does not grant a valid visa to its nationals when crossing its external borders, unless it does so on the basis of a request from the EU country concerned.
* Exempted country: a country which has granted a visa to a non-member of its territory for a specific period of time.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EEC) 2018/852 of 6 November 2018 on the approximation of the laws of the Union concerning the application, application and development of the principles of reciprocal recognition of third country nationals’ access to the Union (Codified version).
Successive amendments have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
Council Decision 1999/437/EC of 27 June 1999 on the establishment of a system of visa-related measures for the protection of the rights of the persons of the State of Israel and of the Palestinian Authority and repealing Council Decision No 538/2001 (OJ L 183, 28.6.1999, pp. 1-2)
Council Directive 1999/438/EC on the harmonisation of the rules on the entry and transit of persons from non-Schengen countries for the purposes of the implementation, application, development and maintenance of the Community’



Summary 50:
European Union Agency for Criminal Justice Cooperation (EUROJHA) — rules of procedure, structure and operation of Eurojust (SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013 establishing Eurojust
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes the legal framework for Eurojust, a European Union agency for criminal justice cooperation (Eurojust).
It sets out Eurojust’s organisational structure, its tasks and its budget.
KEY POINTS
Scope
Eurojust is responsible for investigating, prosecuting, investigating and prosecuting serious criminal offences in the European Union (EU). It has a number of tasks, including:
collecting, analysing and prosecuting criminal offences;
exchanging information;
providing technical assistance;
assisting the European Parliament, the Council, the European Commission and the European Police Organisation (EPPO) in the field of criminal justice;
contributing to the prevention, investigation and prosecution of serious crimes in the EU.
The regulation sets out the tasks and objectives of the agency. It also lays down the rules for its work programme.
It covers criminal offences related to the serious crimes listed in Annex I of the regulation. The regulation does not apply to:
reciprocal cooperation between EU countries’ national authorities;
cooperation between Eurojust and Interpol;
joint investigation teams;
the exchange of information between the national authorities of EU countries and between national authorities and Eurojust.
Euronavisional work programme
The European Union countries are responsible for drawing up and implementing Eurojust's resource programming. The resource programming must be sent to the Commission by no later than 31 January each year. It must clearly indicate which tasks have been added, changed or deleted in comparison with the previous financial year. The European Parliament and the Council have the power to adopt the programming document. The College of Justice of the EU adopts the programming documents. It is assisted by an Executive Board and an Executive Director. The Executive Board adopts implementing rules concerning the Data Protection Officer.
EU countries must cooperate with Eurojust in order to prevent, investigate and prosecute criminal offences. They must:
cooperate with each other and cooperate with Interpol and other international organisations;
ensure that Eurojust carries out its tasks in accordance with the rules of the European Criminal Police Organisation;
participate in the work of the College and the Executive Board;
share information on Eurojust with the Commission and other relevant national authorities.
In addition, Eurojust:
is responsible for:
ensuring the effective implementation of the multiannual work programme for the period 2014-2020;
conducts joint investigations with other EU countries;
facilitates cooperation between national police and judicial authorities in the fight against organised crime;
coordinates with the United Nations Office for the Prohibition of Transnational Organized Crime (OPOC);
provides technical assistance to the European Border and Coast Guard Agency (OLAC) and the Eurojust Directorate-General for Law Enforcement Cooperation;
is involved in the coordination of the joint investigation teams set up by Eurojust;
has a budget of €1.5 billion for the current financial year, which includes:
a budget for the operational budget;
an annual work programme of €500 million for the next financial year;
a work programme to be adopted by the College by 31 January every year.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULATING APPLY?
The Regulation has applied since 1 January 2014.
BACKGROUND
   
 
For more information, see:
‘Eurojust and the EU’ on the European External Action Service's website.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Decision 2014/852/JHA of 21 December 2014 establishing the legal basis for the establishment of the Agency for Community Justice Cooperation known as Eurojust [See amending act(s)].
Successive amendments to Regulation (EC) No 652/2014 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
Council Delegated Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 852/2013 of 22 December 2013 establishing the European European Union Agency of Criminal Justice cooperation (OJ L 347, 28.12.2013, pp. 1-8)
See consolidated version.
Council Regulation (Euratom) 2015/856 of 22 November 2015 establishing the EU Agency for European Union Cooperation in Criminal Justice (Oj L 347 of 28.11.2015, p. 1)
last update 04.01.2016(1) The United Kingdom withdraws from the EU and becomes a third country.



Summary 51:
Criminal law to combat money laundering: preventing, investigating and prosecuting money laundering (Directive (EU) 2017/1371 on combating money laundering by means of criminal law (SUMMARY OF:
Directive on the prevention, investigation and prosecution of money laundering in the European Union
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DIRECTIVE?
It aims to prevent, investigate and prosecute money laundering.
It lays down minimum rules on the freezing and confiscation of the instrumentalities and proceeds of crime in criminal matters.
KEY POINTS
The directive applies to:
money laundering involving property derived from criminal offences affecting the EU’s financial interests;
the transfer, conversion, concealment or disguise of property and results in further damage than that already caused by the criminal activity, for instance by putting the property into circulation and, by doing so, concealing its unlawful origin.
EU countries must take the necessary measures to ensure that the offences are punishable by effective, proportionate and dissuasive criminal penalties.
Penalties for natural persons
The legislation does not preclude criminal proceedings from being brought against natural persons who are perpetrators, inciters or accessories in any of the offences referred to in Article 3(1) and (5) and Article 4. However, they must be brought against individuals who have committed the offences in the exercise of their professional activities and who are an obliged entity within the meaning of Article 2(s) of the Directive (i.e. for example, an individual who is an agent of a criminal organisation or a legal person) and who has committed the offence in order to carry out professional activities.
In addition, the following aggravating circumstances are to be regarded as aggravating:
the offence was committed within the framework of an organised criminal organisation,
the offender is an obliging entity, or has committed it in the practice of their profession.
The offender has the right to appeal against the decision to initiate or conclude criminal proceedings, including in cases where the offender has died.
National authorities must assist each other in the widest possible way and ensure that information is exchanged in an effective and timely manner in accordance with national law and the existing EU legal framework. They must also ensure that sufficient personnel and targeted training, resources and up-to-date technological capacity are available.
Proportionate penalties
The European Commission must submit a report to the European Parliament and to the Council by 3 December 2022 assessing the extent to which the EU countries have complied with this directive. It must also inform the Commission of the number of cases where it is not possible to initiate, conclude or prosecute criminal proceedings against the offender.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS DIRECTIVE APPLY?
The law entered into force on 3 December 2017. EU countries had to incorporate it into national law by 3 November 2018.
BACKGROUND
   
The EU is a signatory to the Convention on Laundering, Search, Seizure and Confiscation of Proceeds from Crime and on the Financing of Terrorism.
For more information, see:
‘Fighting money laundering’ on the European Commission's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Proceeds of crime: instrumentalities or proceeds of criminal activity that are used for the purpose of laundering or concealing their unlawful origin and that are the result of the transfer or conversion of goods, services, money or other property, which are the property of a person, organisation or entity that is involved in criminal activity.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Directive (EC) No 552/2014/EU of 3 November 2014 on the prohibition, investigation, prosecution and investigation of the money laundering of persons, companies, undertakings and undertakings of the Member States and repealing Council Directive 2014/42/EU (OJ L 127, 29.4.2014, pp. 39-43)
Successive amendments to Directive (Euratom) No 529/2014 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 04.02.2019



Summary 52:
Fishing of bluefin tuna in the eastern Atlantic and the Mediterranean: rules for the conservation of Atlantic Tunas (European Union rules)
Fishing on bluefin fish: rules governing the conservation and management
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) 2016/852 — rules for bluefin fishing
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out the rules for fishing of large-scale pelagic longline tuna (Thunnus thynnus) in the Eastern Atlantic and Mediterranean.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to the fishing of:
bluefin tuna caught by vessels over 24 metres, with the exception of the area delimited by west of 10° W and north of 42° N as well as of the Norwegian exclusive economic zone, where such fishing is permitted from 1 August to 31 January.
Large-scale longline fishing by vessels with a maximum length of 24 metres is permitted in the Atlantic Ocean and in the Mediterranean from 1 January to 31 May.
JFOs with other CPCs are not permitted.
EU countries must send a list of designated ports to the European Commission, which transmits that information to the ICCAT Secretariat.
Vessels must keep a daily logbook containing the details of all transfers carried out during the fishing season.
Catching vessels and traps must be accompanied by a written declaration with clearly written name and an ICCAT number.
FROM WHEN DOES THE REGULE APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 January 2016.
BACKGROUND
The EU is a party to the International Convention for the Conservation of the Marine Environment (ICCAT) and the Convention on the Law of the Sea.
For more information, see:
Bluefin tuna fishing (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Bluefin tuna: a species of fish that is the subject of a conservation convention.
* Longline fishing: fishing in which a longline line is attached to a boat.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EEC) No 852/2016 of 21 December 2016 on the rules governing bluefin fisheries (OJ L 157, 1.1.2016, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EC) 2016-852/16 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
 
  барска гарка:
Commission Implementing Decision (EU, Euratom) 2015/856 of 15 December 2015 on the implementation of Regulation (EU), No 856/2016 on the Union control system for ensuring compliance with the rules of the common fisheries policy, amending Regulations (EC, No 847/96, (EC), No 2371/2002, EU, No 768/2005, EC, No 2115/2005 and EC, no 676/2007, and repealing Regulations (EU/1342/2008 and (EC).
Council Decision (Euratom) No 1224/2009 of 20 November 2009 establishing a European Union system for the control of fisheries policy.
last update 04.01.2016



Summary 53:
Injurious pricing: EU rules on the sale of ships below their normal value (IPI Code) (codified version)
Injunctive pricing: European system of injurious pricing for ships
Implementing Regulation (EU) 2016/849 on the enforcement of the EU’s rules on selling ships below the normal value.
SUMMARY
WHAT DOES THIS REGULATION DO?
It codifies and repeals Regulation (EC) No 385/96.
It aims to ensure that EU countries’ customs authorities do not discriminate against ships which are sold below their market value for commercial reasons.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to:
ships sold below the market price for commercial purposes (i.e. the price paid or payable for the vessel under consideration);
ships which have been delivered after the original date of sale;
ships that have been extended by more than a year.
EU countries must ensure that:
shipbuilding contracts are not terminated where the margin of the injurious price is de minimis;
contracts are terminated where there is no longer a legitimate commercial interest in the vessel.
Shipbuilding contracts may not be terminated where:
the price of the vessel is below its normal value;
the shipbuilder has not been able to meet its contractual obligations; or has not fulfilled its obligations under the contract; or
the contract has been terminated.
The European Commission may launch an investigation or proceedings against a shipbuilder if it considers that the contract is not being fulfilled.
Investigations or proceedings may be launched if:
a shipbuilding contracts have not been properly implemented;
a contract has not complied with the contract terms and conditions of the contract.
If an investigation is launched, the Commission must:
ensure the proper disclosure of the essential facts and considerations to parties which qualify for such treatment;
make available to interested parties the information they need to defend their interests;
establish a procedure for the proper allocation of costs, even in start-up situations.
Where the Commission considers that a shipbuilding contract does not comply with the conditions laid down in the IPI Code, it may initiate an investigation.
An investigation may also be opened against a vessel that has been extended beyond its normal delivery date.
Injurisdiction of the Commission
The Commission may decide to open an investigation against a contracting party if it is satisfied that the shipbuilder is not complying with the rules of the regulation. It must state the periods within which interested parties may make themselves known, present their views in writing and submit information if such views and information are to be taken into account during the investigation. The Commission may also decide to impose sanctions on the shipbuilding company if it finds that it has not applied the rules correctly.
Imposing sanctions must be effective, proportionate and dissuasive. The imposition of sanctions must not be disproportionate to the amount of damage caused by the infringement of the rights of the contracting party.
Exchange rate fluctuations may lead to a change in the price of a vessel. In such a case, appropriate adjustments must be made to take into account any unreasonable effect on the injitable pricing margin due solely to exchange rate fluctuations between the original price of sale and the date of the change.
A vessel may be subject to an export price if it has been sold for less than the price it was originally paid for. The export price must be the price actually paid, payable or payable at the time of the sale.
When a vessel is sold below its market price, the customs authorities must not allow it to load or unload if it:
has not been unloaded or unloaded within the EU;
has been delayed;
was not loaded or unloading before the date on which it was sold;
had not been loaded or unloaded within the European Economic Area (EEA).
The customs authorities may also refuse to grant loading and unloading rights to vessels subject to the denial of loading and loading rights.
This regulation does not apply to vessels that have not yet been delivered.
Any shipbuilder that has extended the delivery date of a ship for commercial or technical reasons may not apply this regulation. However, if the extended delivery date was for normal commercial reasons and not to avoid the application of this regulation, it is subject to this regulation unless the vessel has been delivered within the scope of the ICIP Code.
To ensure that the Commission may impose sanctions, it must take the necessary measures, including:
imposing penalties on the vessel builder;
taking measures to impose penalties on any shipbuilder which has been found to have infringed the ICI Code;
prohibiting the export of vessels which are being sold for commercial and technical reasons;
exchanging information between the Commission and EU countries.
FROM WHEN DOES THE REGULATIONS APPLY?
Regulation (EU)* No 849 has applied since 1 January 2016.
Amendments to the regulation have been incorporated into the original text



Summary 54:
Cableway installations — conformity assessment and conformity assessment requirements
Cableways — conformity assessments
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 1025/2012 on the conformity assessment of cableway installations
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out the essential requirements for the design, manufacture, installation and testing of cableways in the European Union (EU).
It aims to ensure that cableways are safe and that they comply with the essential safety requirements laid down in Directive 2000/9/EC on the harmonisation of technical harmonisation and standards for the carriage of passengers and goods on cableways.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to:
cableways designed and built for use on public roads, railways and other modes of transport, such as tramways, motorways, roads, bridges, bridges and tunnels, as well as to cableways used by the European Commission.
It does not apply to: installations which are not covered by the EU’s general safety legislation (Directive 2009/23/EC);
installations which have their vehicles running on a fixed track (such as funicular vehicles and multi-rope cable cars) which are equipped with an automatic braking device on the track, when the possibility of traction cable breaking cannot reasonably be excluded;
cables or their attachments breaking or falling;
installments which have been designed and constructed for use by the Commission, the European Parliament, the Council or the European Economic and Social Committee (EEC).
EU countries must notify the Commission and other competent bodies that carry out third-party conformity assessment tasks.
These bodies must ensure that:
the design and construction of a cableway installation meets the essential essential requirements set out in the regulation;
the installation as a whole meets the necessary essential requirements.
Manufacturers and importers must:
ensure that their products comply with all essential requirements;
provide the necessary technical documentation for the subsystem or the safety component according to Annex VIII;
make available to the Commission a single point at which the manufacturer can be contacted.
The Commission must also:
assess the safety of the subsystem and safety components of existing cableways;
conduct a safety analysis of the installation and its subsystem or safety components;
take the necessary measures to ensure the installation complies with its essential requirements and with the relevant EU safety legislation.
Notification of conformity assessment bodies
The European Commission must notify EU countries of the bodies authorised to carry out the third party conformity assessment* tasks under this regulation. These bodies must not engage in any activity that may conflict with their independence of judgement or integrity in relation to conformity assessment activities for which they are notified.
In addition, the Commission must inform EU countries and the other EU countries that the Commission has carried out a safety investigation into the installations covered by this regulation and that it has received a report on the results of the investigation.
Penalties for infringements
The penalties provided for in this regulation are effective, proportionate and dissuasive. They may include criminal penalties for serious infringements.
References
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Commission Implementing Decision 2014/852/EU
1.1.2014
-
OJ L 347 of 28.11.2014, pp. 1-8
Amending Decision (EU, Euratom) 2015/856
2.3.2015
- The Commission adopts Implementing Regulation (EC) No 852/2014 of 25 October 2015 on the application of the European Convention on the Harmonisation of Technical Harmonisation and Standards in the field of Electrical and Electronic Communications (ECTECH) (Official Journal L 10 of 27.11-28.2015, pp 1-2)
See consolidated version.
last update 04.02.2016



Summary 55:
Accessibility of products and services for persons with disabilities
Assistance and mobility for people with disabilities: EU accessibility rules
Assistive devices designed and manufactured for the use of persons who have disabilities must comply with the requirements of the European Union (EU) Accessibility Directive.
SUMMARY OF:
Directive 2016/65/EU on the accessibility of products for the user of assistive devices
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DIRECTIVE?
It aims to improve the level of accessibility in the EU’s internal market for goods and services intended for use by persons who are blind, partially sighted or partially hearing.
It sets out minimum requirements for the design and production of products, as well as for the provision of services.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The directive applies to:
personal computers, including desktops, notebooks, smartphones and tablets;
computer hardware systems;
mobile phones;
accessibility-related products;
assistance devices;
personal mobility devices.
Products must meet the following requirements:
the product must be designed, manufactured and marketed in such a way as to allow users to use it in a way that it is easily understood and understood by those with disabilities;
it must be compatible with assistive technologies;
all products must be able to operate in an accessible mode of communication.
The product must bear the CE conformity marking. The CE marking must be affixed visibly, legibly and indelibly to the product or to its data plate. It must indicate a single point at which the manufacturer can be contacted.
the manufacturer must ensure that the product complies with the relevant functional performance criteria.
EU countries must:
ensure that the CE marking is affixed on the product;
provide technical specifications for products that comply with this directive;
make the product available for sale on the market in a language easily understood by persons with a disability;
inform the competent authorities of the accessibility requirements and free movement of the product and of the information it contains.
Where a product does not comply with these requirements, it must be withdrawn from the market or withdrawn from circulation.
In addition to the above requirements, the directive sets out a number of specific requirements for:
products that are designed or manufactured with a view to being used by people who are partly sighted and partially hearing;
devices that are intended to be used for the purpose of mobility;
adviseive devices that are specifically designed to be adapted to the needs of people who have a disability.
Accessibility requirements
Products and services must be accessible by complying with the following functional performance requirements. These are:
functional performance criteria: the product must meet at least one or more of the following functions of the design, production and provision of products or services: the user interface, the display of information, the sound, visual and tactile relief format or sound in addition to a text warning so that blind persons can perceive it;
the user interface and display of product information;
features: the device must be easily understood, accessible and user-friendly.
Technical specifications: the technical specifications must be available in an easily understood language and must provide the user with the information they need to make the product accessible.
Support services: where available, support services (help desks, call centres, technical support, relay services and training services) must provide information on accessibility of a product and its compatibility with the product.
Consultation
The European Commission is responsible for the implementation of the directive. The Commission is assisted by a committee composed of representatives of the EU countries and the European Parliament and the Council.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS DIRECTIVE APPLY?
The legislation entered into force on 28 June 2016. It applies from 28 June 2017.
BACKGROUND
The EU has adopted a series of laws on accessibility, including:
Regulation (EC) No 261/2004 on the universal design of products (see summary);
Regulations (EC, EWG) No 1107/2006 and (EC), No 1025/2012 on the harmonisation of standards for products, and
Directives (EC and EWG), No 1177/2010 and 2011/61/EU of the Council on the free movement and marketing of goods, and repealing Directives 2002/92/EC and Directive 2011/63/EU.
For more information, see:
Accessible products (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Accessibility: the ability to use a product or a service in a particular way.
* Assistive device: a device designed and made to be put into use by a person who has a disability and which is intended for that person.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Directive 2016/35/EU
28.6.2016 on the approximation of the laws and regulations of the Member States relating to the accessibility and mobility of persons having a disability (OJ L 127, 28.5.2016, pp. 1-8)



Summary 56:
EU system for supply chain due diligence
EU system of supply-chain due-dealing
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) 2019/852 — Union system for Supply Chain Due-Dealing
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes a Union system to combat the supply chain link between conflict and illegal exploitation of minerals.
It aims to prevent the supply of metals to armed groups and security forces in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC).
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to the trade in tin, tantalum and tungsten, their ores, and gold. It does not apply to recycled metals, which have undergone even further steps in the transformation process.
EU importers of metals must:
ensure that they carry out a risk assessment to assess the impact of their supply chain on the environment and human health and safety;
identify and report the results of their own supply chain checks to the competent national authorities;
report to the European Commission every 3 years on the findings of the risk assessment and the measures they have taken to prevent or mitigate adverse impacts;
assess the risks associated with their imports of metals and their response strategies.
In addition, they must ensure that they:
have a risk management system in place to identify and respond to any adverse impacts resulting from their imports;
have an independent third-party audit to check that they are carrying out their own due diligence;
carry out audits to ensure they are performing their own checks.
The European Union system also applies to:
supply chain audits of EU importers* of metals;
monitor the implementation of the EU system of due diligence.
the European Commission must keep a register of EU-wide responsible smelters and refiners.
Importers of metals are required to report to the Commission on the results they have received from their own audits and the actions taken to respond to adverse impacts.
National authorities must designate one or more competent authorities responsible for the application of the regulation. The Commission may adopt a delegated act to allow for compliance with this regulation by individual economic operators that are members of the schemes and to avoid double auditing.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULTRY TO APPLY?
   
It applies from 1 January 2021.
BACKGROUND
The EU has adopted a number of measures to combat conflict and the trafficking in minerals. These include:
Directive 2014/33/EU on the prevention and control of trafficking in arms and related materiel;
Council Decision 2014/34/EU establishing a system for the control of the export of weapons and ammunition and repealing Decision 2004/8/EC (see summary).
In 2013, the Commission adopted a resolution calling on the EU to take action against the trafficking of arms and ammunition.
For more information, see:
Supply Chain Due Diligence (European Commission).
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Council Regulation (EC) No 552/2019
1.1.2021
-
OJ L 157, 28.5.2019, pp. 1-20.
RELATED ACTS
Commission Implementing Decision 2013/856/EU of 27 November 2013 on the implementation by the European Union of the United Nations Convention on the Suppliers of Arms and related Material (OJ C 202, 29.11.2013, pp 1-2)
Commission Delegated Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 652/2013 of 28 November 2013 establishing a Union System of Supply-Chain Due Duties for the Protection of Human Health and Safety in the Union of Importers, of Metals, of Tin, Tantalum, Tungsten and Gold, of Gold and of Other Metals and of other Metals (Official Journal L 136, 29 November 2013, p. 1)
See consolidated version.
Commission Regulation (Euratom) 2015/865 of 27 October 2015 on the protection of human health, safety and the environment in the EU of metals, of copper, zinc, lead, nickel, lead-zinc, zinc-zirconium, lead and zinc-copper, copper-coke, zinc and other metals and of certain minerals and of minerals, of all metals and minerals, and repealing Council Decision 2005/867/EC of 29 November 2005.
last update 04.01.2022



Summary 57:
Customs debt: rules for the collection and disposal of goods by the customs authorities (recast)
Customs Debt: Rules for the Collection and Disposal of Goods
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 450/2008 on the collection of customs debts and the disposal of customs goods
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It lays down the rules governing the collection, disposal and disposal by customs authorities of customs debt.
It recasts and repeals the previous regulation, Regulation (EC), which had to become law in the European Union (EU) countries by 1 June 2008.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to:
customs debt on import and export duties;
non-originating goods;
unauthorised economic operators for customs simplifications;
the release for free circulation and temporary admission of goods.
The rules apply to all imports and exports of goods from non-EU countries to the EU, except for:
goods originating in the EU and those originating in an EU country other than the EU;
exports of goods originating in a EU country that are not subject to a customs duty.
Importers must lodge a customs declaration with the customs authority. The declaration must contain:
the goods’ name, address, date of arrival and destination;
a description of the origin and destination of the goods; and
the customs declaration’s content.
EU countries must ensure that the customs declaration is valid for at least 5 years.
Custom-related information must be provided by:
a customs declaration on the origin of the imported goods and
a summary of the customs duties and obligations;
an exit summary declaration.
In addition to the list of goods covered by the regulation, the regulation also sets out the rules on:
exchange of information between customs authorities and economic operators
the exchange of customs declarations
the payment of a customs debt
the destruction or disposal otherwise of goods
the right of economic operators to appeal against customs debts.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
It applies from 1 June 2016.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Commission Implementing Regulation
1.6.2016
-
OJ L 294 of 30.11.2016.
RELATED ACTS
Commission Delegated Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 552/2013 of 30 October 2013 laying down implementing powers for the implementation of the regulation (OJ C 202, 30.10.2013, pp. 1-8)
See consolidated version.
Commission Regulation (Euratom) 2015/852 of 30 November 2015 laying down the implementing powers of the Commission for the implementing acts relating to binding tariff information (BTI decisions) and decisions relating to the binding origin information (BOI decisions).
Commission Decision 2014/856 of 30 June 2014 laying down detailed rules on the interpretation and application of the annex to the regulation.
last update 04.02.2016



Summary 58:
EU rules on intellectual property infringement
EU rules against infringement
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 1383/2003 on the enforcement of intellectual property rights
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out rules to combat the illegal trade in goods infringing intellectual property (IP) rights.
It aims to prevent acts in breach of the EU’s intellectual property laws.
KEY POINTS
EU countries must:
ensure that the competent customs department receives applications and detentions relating to infringements of IP rights;
take all necessary measures to prevent, detect, investigate and prosecute infringements;
cooperate with each other and with non-EU countries in order to prevent and combat infringements.
Implementing acts
The European Union (EU) has adopted implementing acts. These aim to:
facilitate the exchange of information between the customs authorities of EU countries;
improve cooperation between customs authorities and the European Commission;
promote the sharing of information on infringements, including information on the types of goods and persons involved.
The regulation applies to the import, export and transit of goods subject to customs supervision or customs control. It does not apply to the following:
goods that are subject to import controls or to customs control;
items that are intended for export to, or intended for, a third country;
materials that have been imported into, exported from, the EU.
In addition, it applies to goods intended for use in the manufacture, distribution or use of, or use in, or for the manufacture of, intellectual property-related products.
Customs authorities are responsible for:
monitoring the movement of goods;
detaining, seizing, seizing or confiscating the goods.
notifying the customs department of infringements
Requests for information
The competent customs authorities must notify the applicant within 10 working days of receiving a request for information. The applicant must provide the following information:
the name and address of the holder of the intellectual property right;
the date of entry into force of the decision to take action;
a description of the goods and the reasons for the decision.
If the applicant does not provide the information required, the customs authority may suspend the release of or detaining the goods, or ask the holder to provide them with any relevant information with respect to the goods before it takes any action.
Where the applicant fails to provide the required information within 10 days, it may request the applicant to supply the missing information within 3 working days.
When a customs department considers that the applicant has not supplied the information it needs, it must inform the applicant of its decision to suspend or confiscate the goods or to take any other action it considers necessary. The customs department may also suspend or detain the goods if it considers that they pose a risk to public health or safety.
Exchange of information
In order to facilitate the exchange and exchange of relevant information, EU countries must establish a centralised database of information relating to applications and detention. This database must be operational as soon as possible and not later than 1 January 2015. It must contain the information referred to in points (c), (e), (g), (h) and (i) of Article 6(3) of the regulation. The database must also contain information on:
customs controls and measures taken by customs authorities;
information on the number of persons involved in the import and export of goods, including:
name of vessel or registration of means of transport;
number of voyage/journey;
place;
freight bill or other transport document.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULATING ACT APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 January 2013.
BACKGROUND
The EU has adopted a number of implementing acts to combat intellectual property infringements in the past. These include:
Directive 2013/13/EU on the prevention and enforcement of infringement of copyright and related rights (see summary);
Implementation of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 596/2013 on the protection of intellectual properties (See summary).
For more information, see:
Trade in Intellectual Property Rights (European Commission).
MAIN DOCUMENT
 
  The European Parliament and the Council of 3 July 2012 establishing a European Union system of laws and regulations relating to intellectual property.
Successive amendments to Regulation (EC, EC and Euratom have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
Commission Implementing Act (Euratom) 2015/852 of 27 November 2015 establishing a system of rules and regulations concerning the enforcement and monitoring of infringments of copyright, related rights and related matters (OJ L 347, 28.11.2015, pp. 1-2)
RELATED DOCUMENTS
  Implementing Decision (EU), Euratom of 27 October 2015 on the implementation of Directive 2013/14/EU of the



Summary 59:
EU customs programme for cooperation in the field of customs (2020-2027)
EU customs program for cooperation on customs
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2019/852 establishing a customs programme
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes a European Union (EU) Customs Programme for cooperation for the period from 1 January 2021 to 31 December 2027.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation establishes the customs programme (known as the ‘Customs programme’), which aims to promote cooperation between EU countries’ customs authorities.
The programme is implemented by the European Commission and is funded by the general budget of the EU. It covers the period 2021–2027. The budget for the programme is €950 million.
Objectives
The objectives of the programme are to:
promote cooperation between customs authorities in the area of customs;
provide technical assistance for customs control equipment;
support the development and operation of a European electronic system;
encourage the exchange of information and best practice on customs control procedures and procedures;
improve the efficiency of customs control systems;
contribute to the harmonisation of customs procedures.
Cooperation actions
The European Commission is responsible for implementing the programme. It is assisted by a number of external experts, such as:
the European Border and Coast Guard Agency (EBCA) and the European Maritime Safety Agency (EMSA);
the United Nations Office for Customs Cooperation (UNICEFICA);
a number of experts from non-EU countries.
Eligible actions
EU funding
The EU countries are eligible for funding under the programme, provided that they are:
financed by the EU budget;
cooperate with each other and cooperate with the Commission;
participate in multiannual work programmes for a maximum of 3 years.
Implementation and forms of EU funding
Implementing measures
The Commission may grant grants, prizes, procurement, indirect management, financial instruments, budgetary guarantees, financial assistance and the reimbursement of the external experts. It may also use other forms of Union funding, including:
grants and prizes for the purchase, maintenance and upgrade of equipment,
budget guarantees for the procurement of equipment and training;
financial assistance for the development, operation and maintenance of an IT capacity-building action.
Exemptions
The following actions are excluded from the scope of this regulation:
cooperation actions for the assessment of equipment needs or, where appropriate, training in relation to the equipment purchased;
the procurement of training for customs authorities;
exchange of information on customs procedures, procedures and best practices;
training of customs authorities for the implementation of the work programme;
research and development actions.
In addition, the programme does not apply to the following actions:
organisation, monitoring, evaluation, verification, evaluation and control;
promotion of, monitoring and evaluation of customs controls;
monitoring, assessment, verification and evaluation;
implementation of work programmes.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
It entered into force on 11 March 2021.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Commission Implementing Regulation (EC) No 852/2019
1.1.2021
-
OJ L 157 of 11.3.2019
RELATED ACTS
Commission Decision (EU/2018/1046 of 18 July 2018 on the financial rules applicable to the EU’s general budget (OJ C 62 of 15.7.2018)
Commission Delegated Regulation (Euratom) No 283/2014 of 30 June 2014 on the European Union Customs Programme (EUR-2020).
Commission Regulation (EU-2020/2027 of 31 May 2020 on the EU Customs Programme.
Commission Communication from the Commission to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee, the Committee of the Regions and the Committee on Customs and Maritime Affairs: Implementing the Customs Programme 2021-2026 (COM(2020) 652 final of 30.5.2020)
Council Decision (EEC) 2020/856 of 30 May 2020 establishing the European Customs Programme 2020-2025.
Last updated: 27.07.2020



Summary 60:
ESF+ (European Social Fund)
ESFocusing on social inclusion (ESF+)
SUMMARY OF:
Decision (EU) 2021/817 on the European Social Fund’s social inclusion strand
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DECISION?
It sets out the general rules for the European social fund (ESSF+) and the specific objectives of the ESF+ strand under shared management.
KEY POINTS
EU countries must allocate at least 25 % of their resources to the specific objective for the social inclusion policy area set out in Article 4(1), points (h) to (l), including the promotion of the socio-economic integration of third-country nationals.
The ESF is the main instrument of the European Pillar of Social Rights (ESR), which aims to promote equal opportunities and access to the labour market; fair working conditions; and social protection and inclusion. It is also the main source of financial support for the implementation of the Erasmus+ programme.
In order to achieve its objectives, EU countries must:
ensure equal opportunities for workers on a non-discriminatory basis by ensuring close cooperation of the public employment services of EU countries, the Commission and the social partners;
promote the integration of disadvantaged learners in learning mobility;
encourage the participation of women and minorities in learning and training;
support the social integration of non-EU nationals;
provide support for addressing material deprivation.
Funding and methods of implementation
The European Union funding is based on the following sources:
grants* from the general budget of the EU budget;
cofinancing from beneficiaries’ own resources, income generated by the project or financial or in-kind contributions from third parties.
co-financing for grants may be provided from beneficiaries' own resources;
other common output indicators for common result indicators* (e.g. gross domestic product (GDP) and gross national income (GNI).
The EU budget is financed by the European Investment Bank (EIB) and the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF).
FROM WHEN DOES THIS DECISION APPLYEAR OF ENTRY INTO FORCE?
The decision entered into force on 1 January 2021. It applies from 1 January 2022 with regard to the EaSI strand.
BACKGROUND
European social fund
For more information, see:
‘ESF’ (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Social inclusion: the aim of which is to improve the quality of life of the most deprived people in the European Union (EU).
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Decision (EU, Euratom) 2019/818 of 21 December 2019 on the Social inclusion strand under the EU general budget and repealing Decision No 541/2014/EU.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Regulation (EC) No 1296/2013
1.1.2020
-
OJ L 193 of 30.7.2013, pp. 1-5
See consolidated version.
last update 04.02.2020



Summary 61:
European Union solidarity programme for young people (EU 2020/2021)
European Union (EU2020/2020)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) 2021/817 on the European Union’s Youth Solidarity Programme
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION AND THE PROGRAMME?
The regulation establishes the EU 2020/2020 programme for the participation of young people in solidarity activities.
The programme aims to encourage young people to express their solidarity in practice by participating in humanitarian aid-related activities. It also aims to promote the application of Articles 21 and 23 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
KEY POINTS
Participation of young Europeans in solidarity actions
The EU2020 programme sets up two strands of actions:
the ‘participation’ strand of solidarity activities, which aims to provide young people with a wide range of opportunities to participate in humanitarian-related solidarity activities and the ‘European Voluntary Humanitarian Aid Corps’, which provides volunteers with the opportunity to help with the implementation of these actions.
Activities conducted under the programme are based on the following principles:
mutual respect for human rights and the right to equality between men and women;
the right to non-discrimination based on sex, racial or ethnic origin, religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation, socioeconomic background and socioeconomic background;
respect for the principles of human dignity and respect for the dignity of all persons;
participation in the European Voluntary humanitarian aid corps.
the participation of individuals in the programme is open to young people of any age, regardless of their nationality, gender, nationality, nationality or place of residence.
Organisation of the programme
EU countries must designate a national agency to carry out the actions and activities. The national agencies must inform relevant target groups about the activities and activities undertaken in their respective countries.
National agencies must ensure that the actions are coordinated and coordinated in line with the objectives of the EU2020/2022 programme.
Participants must be free of any form of discrimination based on their gender, religion, belief, age, disability or socioeconomic background. They must also be free from any forms of discrimination, such as age discrimination, sexual discrimination, ageism, racial discrimination or gender-based discrimination.
In addition, EU countries must:
ensure that participants are covered by insurance coverage and, where appropriate, to the relevant clearance requirements, in accordance with applicable national law;
cooperate with each other and with non-EU countries in order to exchange experience and best practice;
provide training and mentoring to participants;
encourage participation in the activities of NGOs and other non-governmental organisations (NGOs).
The European Commission is responsible for implementing the programme. It adopts the work programmes and the calls for proposals published by the Commission. The Commission may adopt delegated acts for the duration of the Programme.
Financing
The Regulation sets out rules on grants, prizes, procurement, indirect management, financial instruments, budgetary guarantees, financial assistance and reimbursement of external experts. The programme is financed by the EU budget. The cumulative financing must not exceed the total eligible costs of the action.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULATIONS APPLY?
It has applied since 1 January 2021.
BACKGROUND
The United Kingdom withdraws from the EU and becomes a third country (non-EU country) as of 1 January 2022.
For more information, see:
United Kingdom withdrawal from the Union (European External Action Service).
KEY TERMS
* Humanitarian aid: a humanitarian aid activity that aims to help people in need by providing them with information, advice and assistance.
* Volunteer: a person who is actively involved in the organisation of, or participating in, a voluntary humanitarian aid organisation.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2019/818 of 21 January 2019 establishing the European United Nations Programme for the Participation of Young People in Solidarity Activities (OJ L 131, 1.2.2019, pp. 1-5)
Successive amendments to Regulation (Euratom) 2021 /818 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
 
   
Directive (EU), Euratom of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 October 2016 on the accessibility of the websites and mobile applications of public sector bodies and on the implementation by the European Commission of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals for the period 2020-2025 (Official Journal L 327, 2.12.2016, pp 1-2)
Council Decision No 596/2014/EC of 26 November 2014 on the establishment of a European Union Solidarity Fund for the Year 2020-2020 and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 595/2013 (Official J L 327 of 2.11.2014, pp. 1-3)
Commission Implementing Decision (EU/2020/



Summary 62:
Emergency Fund for the Development of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises (EGSME)
Emergency fund for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises (EGSM)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2019/852 establishing the European Fund for Employment and Social Innovation
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets up an emergency fund to provide financial support to displaced workers and self-employed persons whose activity has ceased.
It aims to eliminate inequalities and promote equality between men and women as well as to combat discrimination based on sex, racial or ethnic origin, religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation.
KEY POINTS
The EGF is a European Union (EU) emergency fund that operates reactively. It is funded by the EU’s general budget.
Eligible beneficiaries are:
displaced workers* (i.e. those who have left their job or have left the labour market);
employed persons (i.) who have ceased their activity;
unemployed persons.
Beneficiaries may include:
employed workers whose activities have ceased, within the reference periods provided for in Article 4(1) to (4) of the regulation;
employed people whose activity ceased, outside the reference period.
The European Commission decides on the technical terms of the financing for the EGF.
EU countries must ensure that beneficiaries are covered by the following rules:
the EGF does not replace support measures which are available for beneficiaries within the Union funds or other EU policies or programmes, but should, where possible, complement them;
the financial contributions from the EU funds or programmes are not to be used to supplement other EU programmes or policies.
the Commission and the EU countries must take all appropriate steps to prevent any discrimination against persons based on gender, gender identity, racial, ethnic origin or religion.
In addition, the Commission and EU countries are required to ensure that:
there is no discrimination against people based on their age or disability;
there are no restrictions on access to EGF funding;
all beneficiaries are treated equally;
any irregularity in the payment of EGF funds is rectified by the European Commission.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
The regulation has applied since 1 January 2019.
BACKGROUND
The EU has adopted a number of measures to combat inequalities and to promote equal opportunities for women and men. These include the creation of the European Employment Fund (EGF), the European Social Fund (ESF) and the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF).
For more information, see:
Equal Opportunities for Women and Men (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Displaced worker: a person who has left his or her job or has left a job because of economic or social difficulties.
* Self-employed person: an individual who is not a worker, but who has a business or has a legitimate interest in it.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EU), Euratom, of 21 January 2019 establishing the Emergency Fund for employment and social innovation (EGSI) (OJ L 110, 22.3.2019, pp. 1–8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (ESI) 2019–852 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
   
Regulations (EC) No 1296/2013, (EU).
See consolidated version.
 
Commission Implementing Decision No 541/2014/EU of 3 May 2014 on the establishment of a European Regional development Fund (ERCDF) and repealing Decision No 1309/2013.
Council Decision No 283/2014 of 3 March 2014 on a European Social and Investment Fund (ESAFF).
last update 04.02.2021



Summary 63:
Transparency register for organisations and self-employed individuals engaged in EU policy-making and policy implementation (2014-2020)
Transparency platform for organisations engaged in European Union (EU) policies
SUMMARY OF:
Agreement between the European Parliament and the European Commission on the transparency register
Decision 2014/852/EU on the signing, on behalf of the EU, of the agreement between the EU Parliament and of the Council on the transposition of information on the activities of organisations and individuals involved in EU policies and in the implementation of EU policies
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE AGREEMENT AND THE DECISION?
The agreement establishes a transposition on the EU’s transparency register for individuals and organisations that are involved in the EU's policies and policies.
The aim is to ensure that the register is up-to-date and that the information it contains is available to the public.
KEY POINTS
The register is open to all individuals, organisations and entities that have a legitimate interest in the development of EU policy. It is designed to facilitate the exchange of information between the signatory institutions and the public on EU policies, policies and programmes.
It covers all activities covered by the EU budget, such as:
public procurement,
research and development,
information exchange,
transport and dissemination,
economic policy,
financial information,
environmental policy, and
public policy.
Applicants are eligible to be entered in the register if they carry out covered activities and observe the code of conduct set out in Annex I (‘code of conduct).
).
They must submit a complete application to the register.
Annex II sets out the information that must be entered into the register, including:
the number of persons and entities involved in covered activities;
the amount and source of any EU grants contributing to their operating costs.
Intermediaries must declare the estimated total annual revenue generated that is attributable to covered activities according to the grid below.
Organisations, including intermediaries, must also declare the amount of money they have received from the EU for their activities and the sources of funding.
Registrants must also provide the following information:
their name, address and contact details;
their contact details and email address;
any other information that may be considered sensitive.
If a registrant fails to comply with these requirements, the registrant may be subject to a formal investigation.
A management board is set up to manage the register and to ensure its proper functioning. The management board meets at least annually at the initiative of its Chair and is chaired by a European Parliament or Council representative. The coordinator is responsible for the coordination of the Secretariat. The Secretariat is assisted by a representative of the Commission.
FROM WHEN DO THE DECISIONS APPLY?
   
The decision and the agreement entered into force on 1 January 2014.
BACKGROUND
The European Parliament, the Council and the Commission are the signatories to the agreement.
For more information, see:
The EU transparency register (European Parliament).
KEY TERMS
* Transparency register: a register of information that is available in the public domain.
* Intermediaries: intermediaries that provide the public with information on EU policy decisions, policies, programmes and initiatives.
MAIN DOCUMENTS
Council Decision 2014/884/EU of 21 December 2014 on the conclusion, on the behalf of its Member States, of an Agreement on the Transposition of Information on the Activities of Organisations and Self-Employed Individuals Engaged in EU Policy-Making and Policy Implementation (OJ L 263, 19.9.2014, pp. 1-8)
Council Directive 2014/943/EU, of 22 December 2014 establishing the European Union Transparency Register and repealing Council Decision 2004/856/EC on the Transparency Register for the Implementation of European Union Policy-making, Policy-Adoption and Implementation of EU Policies and of European External Action Service Decision 2003/858/EC, and Council Directive 2003/965/EC of 23 December 2003 on the European External Access Pass (O J L 347, 29.12.2014 (O.J. L 53, 28.1.2015, p. 1)
See consolidated version.
Council Resolution of 22 November 2013 on the establishment of an EU Transparency Register.
last update 04.01.2020



Summary 64:
European Union multiannual financial framework 2021-2027 — own resources for the EU’s recovery and financial management (EU-2020/2027)
European Union multi-year financial framework (EU–2020/2020)
SUMMARY OF:
Agreement between the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union on budgetary discipline, cooperation between the Institutions on budgetary matters and the establishment of a roadmap towards the introduction of new own resources that are sufficient to cover the repayment of the EU Recovery Instrument established under Council Regulation (EU) 2020/2094 (EURI Regulation)
Decision (EU, Euratom) 2018/1046 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE AGREEMENT AND THE DECISION?
The agreement establishes a roadmap for the introduction, over the period of the 2021–2027 European Union financial framework, of new EU own resources.
The decision concludes the agreement on behalf of the Council.
KEY POINTS
  
The EU–2020–2020 financial framework comprises:
the European Union budget for the period 2014–2020;
the EU-2020–2025 multiannually financial framework;
other EU financial instruments, such as the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), the European Social Fund (ESF) and the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund (EMFF).
The European Union recovery instrument (EURI) is the main source of EU financial support for the recovery and recovery of the COVID-19 crisis. The EURI Regulation establishes the EURI.
.
In addition, the agreement sets out the procedures for the implementation of the EURI regulation.
Budgetary discipline
The institutions agree to:
implement budgetary discipline;
ensure sound financial management;
cooperate in the annual budgetary procedure;
establish a cooperation and establish a roadmap.
Cooperation between the institutions
The Institutions agree on the procedure for:
approving the annual budget;
preparing the budget for each financial year;
providing the Commission with a budget proposal for the financial year.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
The Agreement entered into force on 1 January 2021.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Regulation (EC) No 1296/2013
1.1.2021
-
OJ L 193 of 6.8.2013
RELATED ACTS
Council Decision (EU), Euratom, Euratas and Euratom of 18 July 2018 on financial rules applying to the EU general budget (Official Journal L 183 of 18.7.2018, pp. 1-8)
Council Regulation (EC, Euratl) No 541/2014/EU of 18 June 2014 on the financing of European Union aid under the ACP-EU Partnership Agreement, and on the allocation of financial assistance for the Overseas Countries and Territories to which Part Four of the Treaty on the Functioning of the United Nations applies (OJL 210, 6.6.2014, p. 1)
See consolidated version.
last update 04.02.2019



Summary 65:
European Union Recovery Instrument
European Union recovery Instrument
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2018/1046 establishing the European Union recovery instrument
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes the EU’s economic recovery instrument (the ‘EU Recovery Instrument’).
It aims to support the economic recovery in the aftermath of the COVID-19 crisis.
KEY POINTS
The European Union (EU) is a multiannual financial instrument designed to support economic recovery throughout the EU. It is financed by the EU budget and the EU countries’ national budgets.
The objective of the EU Recovery Instrument is to:
ensure that economic recovery is sustainable and resilient;
provide technical and administrative assistance for the implementation of the measures;
facilitate the exchange of information and expertise between EU countries;
contribute to the economic and financial recovery of EU countries.
In order to achieve these objectives, the EU provides financial support through loans to EU countries, non-repayable support, support through financial instruments or provisioning for budgetary guarantees and related expenditure by the Union.
Financing of the Instrument and allocation of funds
The EU is responsible for financing the EU programmes under the multiannually-funded EU programmes. The amount of funds to be provided under the Instrument is calculated on the basis of a fixed deflator of 2 % per year.
EU countries are responsible for the financing of the specific EU programmes that they participate in. The European Commission must prepare a report every 3 years on how the programme is being implemented. The report must also include a breakdown of the financial resources allocated to each EU country.
Non-related expenditure
The amount of € 384 400 million in 2018 prices, of the amount referred to in Article 2(1) of this regulation, will constitute external assigned revenue to the Union programmes, while € 5 600 million of that amount will constitute the amount to be used for non-recoverable support.
Financial instruments
The Instrument is financed through:
unspent EU budget allocations;
reciprocal budgetary support from the European Stability Mechanism (ESM);
non-reciprocity appropriations from the general budget of the Union;
the provision of budgetary guarantees for budgetary expenditure.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULATIONS APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 January 2019.
BACKGROUND
The COVID 19 crisis caused significant disturbances to economic activity which are reflected in a steep decline in gross domestic product and a significant impact on employment, social conditions, poverty and inequalities.
For more information, see:
European Commission: COVID19 recovery instrument — European Union financial instruments (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* EU budget allocation: the amount of money that the EU allocates to each country under the EU programme.
* External assigned revenue: the revenue that the European Commission receives from the Member States’ governments for the purpose of paying for the expenditure of the programmes under its budget.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (Euratom) No 1046/2018 of 18 July 2018 establishing the Economic and Social Instrument (EUR-2020) (OJ L 283, 31.12.2018, pp. 1-6)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EU Euratom, Euratom) No 1080/2018 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
 
  The European Union Recovery Fund (EU-2020-2022) of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 July 2020 establishing the EU-2020 programme for the European Regional Development Fund and repealing Regulation (EC) No 1296/2013, (EU/2014/1EU) No 1301/2013 and repealing Decision No 516/2013 of the Court of Auditors and the European Central Bank.
Commission Implementing Decision (CFSP) 2020/852 of 31 December 2020 establishing a European Union budget for the period 2020-2023.
See consolidated version.
last update 04.02.2022



Summary 66:
Sanctions for budgetary surveillance in the euro area (2011-2013)
Sanctions on budgetary surveillance
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 552/2011 on sanctions for budgetary control in the European Union
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out sanctions for countries that fail to comply with the budgetary framework of the European Economic and Monetary Union (EMU).
It aims to improve the enforcement of the EU’s budgetary surveillance.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to all EU countries whose currency is the euro. It does not apply to:
non-euro-area countries;
euro area countries with a deficit below 3 % of gross domestic product (GDP);
euro zone countries whose deficit is above 3% of GDP; and
euro countries whose GDP is below 0.2 % of GDP.
The European Commission is responsible for carrying out surveillance missions to assess the compliance of EU countries with budgetary rules. It also carries out economic dialogue with the European Parliament, the Council, the Commission, the European Council and, where appropriate, the President of the Council or the president of the Eurogroup to discuss the implementation of the regulation.
EU countries that do not comply with budgetary surveillance must be subject to sanctions. The Commission may, on grounds of exceptional economic circumstances or following a reasoned request by the EU country concerned, recommend that the Council reduce the amount of the non-interest-bearing deposit or cancel it. It may also annul, reduce or increase the fine.
In order to ensure a fair graduation of sanctions in the preventive and corrective parts of the SGPGDP surveillance, the regulation sets out detailed rules on:
the amount of interest-bearing deposits;
the procedure to be followed by the Commission for the investigation of such actions;
detailed rules of procedure aimed at guaranteeing the rights of the defence, access to the file, legal representation, confidentiality and provisions as to timing and the collection of the fines.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 November 2011.
BACKGROUND
The EU budget is governed by the Stability and Growth Pact (SGP). The SGP is designed to ensure the proper functioning of the economic and monetary union. It is based on the medium-term budgetary objective and the appropriate adjustment path towards that objective.
For more information, see:
EU budgetary surveillance (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Sanctions: sanctions imposed on EU countries when they do not respect the budgetary rules laid down in the Treaty on the Functioning of the Union (TFEU) which go beyond the provisions applicable to all Member States.
* Monetary surveillance: the surveillance of the economy of an EU country to determine whether it is in a position to meet its budgetary objectives and to take appropriate corrective measures.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Council Regulation 2011/552/EU
1.11.2011
-
OJ L 136 of 1.11-1.12.2011, pp. 1-2
Amending act(s)
Council Decision 2011/743/EU of 20 November 2011 on the adoption by the European Commission of a delegated act establishing the maximum amount of fines applicable to Member States in respect of the infringement of Article 290 TFEU of the Statute on the Protection of Economic and Financial Stability (SPSG) (OJ C 202, 1.12-2.2012, p. 1)
See consolidated version.
Last updated: 27.02.2014



Summary 67:
Population and housing censuses
Statistics and housing surveys
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 552/2003 on the transmission of data subject to statistical confidentiality to the European Commission
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
   
It aims to ensure that the European Union (EU) collects reliable, comparable and comparable statistics on the population and housing populations of the EU countries.
It sets out the essential features of the statistical data to be collected and the methodology to be used.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to:
total population,
locality,
household status*,
family status,
type of family nucleus,
number of family members,
size of private household,
private household size.
Conventional and sample surveys
EU countries may base the statistics on different data sources, in particular on:
conventional censuses;
register-based censuses,
sample surveys,
a combination of conventional censuses and sampling surveys;
combined surveys with rotating samples (rolling censuses).
appropriate surveys with rotating samples (rollings).
The European Commission (Eurostat) is assisted by the Statistical Programme Committee.
Programme
The Commission adopts the programme of statistical data and the metadata, as well as the technical specifications for the collection and transmission of the data.
The programme must meet, to the highest possible extent, the essential requirements of the regulation. It must include:
the establishment of the reference years (reference years;
the adoption of the programme,
the selection of data sources and the selection of the methodology;
a description of the methods used to satisfy the requirements of this regulation.
National authorities must:
ensure that the data they collect and transmit meet the essential characteristics of the relevant statistical data;
make continuous efforts to enhance compliance with those essential features.
In the event of a revision or correction in accordance with Article 4(3), EU countries must transmit the modified data to Eurostat no later than on the date of release of the revised data. They must also provide the Commission with a report on the quality of these data transmitted.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLACE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
It entered into force on 20 June 2003.
BACKGROUND
The EU’s statistical system is governed by Regulation (Euratom) No 322/97.
For more information, see:
‘Housing and population’ on Eurostat's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Conventional population: the population of a geographical area in which there is a population of at least 1,000 people.
** Sample surveys: surveys carried out on the basis of a combination of national and regional surveys.
ACT
Council Regulation (EC, EC) No 550/2003 of 20 May 2003 on the submission of data to the Commission of the European Communities of the Community of the Member States of the one part and the European Economic Area of the other part (OJ L 284, 31.10.2003, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EU, EC, EC and EFTA) No 555/2003 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED ACTS
Council Decision 1999/468/EC of 18 December 1999 on the implementation of Regulation (C) No 608/2003 establishing a European Union statistical programme for the period 1999-2006 (OCT) (Official Journal L 283, 30.12.1999, pp 1-2)
See consolidated version.
Commission Regulation (CFSP) No 652/2004 of 20 December 2004 establishing a programme for transmitting the statistical information to the Community on the collection of data on the distribution of population and the housing population (OEC L 284 of 31.11.2004, p. 1)
Commission Decision (EUEC, EFTA, Euratom, EEC, EEA) No 1201/2006 of 20 November 2006 establishing a statistical programme to transmit the statistical Information to the EU of the common market for the year 1999-2007 and repealing Council Decision (EURatom, EU) No 1082/2003 (OIC L 283 of 31 November 2006, pp 2-3)
last update 04.02.2016



Summary 68:
Rules of Procedure for the 9th parliamentary term
Rules of Procedures for the ninth parliamentary term (2019-2022)
SUMMARY OF:
RULES OF PROCEDURE
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATIONS?
The rules of procedure set out by the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union (EU) are designed to ensure the smooth functioning of the EU’s legislative and decision-making bodies.
They aim to:
ensure the proper functioning of Parliament and its committees and delegations;
facilitate the exchange of information and experience between the different committees, delegations and bodies involved in the legislative process;
promote the effective functioning of European political parties and European political foundations.
KEY POINTS
The Rules of Procedure apply to the appointment of:
the President, Vice-Presidents and Quaestors of Parliament;
the Chair, the Vice-Chair and the full-time members of the Single Resolution Board of the single resolution mechanism (SRSM);
the Chairs and Executive Directors of European Supervisory Authority (European Banking Authority, European Securities and Markets Authority and European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority) and the Managing Director and Deputy Managing Director of European Fund for Strategic Investments.
Political diversity
The Conference of Presidents and the European Political Parties and European Political FOUNDATIONS (EPFOUNDATIONS) are responsible for ensuring that the political diversity of Parliament is reflected in the committees and the delegations, as well as in the decision making bodies. The EPFAs and EPFOUNDFAs have the following responsibilities:
representing the EU countries and regions;
advising the European Commission on the implementation of EU policies and programmes;
contributing to the development of the common foreign and security policy area;
providing advice to the Commission and the Council.
Diversity
EU countries and EPFs must ensure that their political diversity is represented in Parliament.
The EPFs and EPAs must:
respect the principles of gender equality and diversity;
take the necessary measures to promote the participation of women and minorities in Parliament and in decision making;
support the work of the High Level Group on Gender Equality and Diversity on 11 April 2018.
Procedure in committee
If a proposal for a legally binding act does not secure a majority of the votes cast in committee, then the committee proposes to Parliament that the proposal be rejected.
When a proposal is adopted by a committee, it must be submitted to the full Parliament for a vote. The vote must be oral and must be expressed by saying the words ‘Yes’, ‘No’ or ‘I abstain’.
Voting procedure
The following voting procedure applies to texts submitted to Parliament:
first, where applicable, voting any amendment to the proposal for legally binding acts;
second, voting on that proposal as a whole, amended or otherwise;
third, if necessary, voting to approve the proposal as an amendment;
fourth, if the proposal is amended or repealed.
In the case of a draft proposal, the committee may propose to the whole of the Parliament that it be adopted as a proposal.
If the proposal does not receive a majority, the proposal must be rejected by a simple majority of votes.
Transparency of Parliament's activities
The EU Parliament is required to publish its annual report on its activities. The report must include:
a motion for a resolution;
a draft proposal;
an explanatory statement including, where appropriate, a financial statement.
It must also include the names of its members and bureau members.
FROM WHEN DO THE RULES APPLY?
They apply from 1 July 2019.
BACKGROUND
The European Parliament is governed by the rules laid down in Article 302 of the Treaty on European Union.
For more information, see:
European Parliament (European External Action Service).
MAIN DOCUMENTS
 
   க  ̱  ͗  
Council Regulation (EEC) No 552/2014 of 22.11.2014 laying down the rules of procedures for the Ninth Parliamentary term (OJ L 302, 22.12.2014, pp. 1-5)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 529/2014 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
Council Resolution of 22 June 2014 on the adoption of the rules on the procedure of procedure of the Ninth Parliament and the Committee of the Regions (Official Journal L 302 of 22 November 2014, p. 1)
See consolidated version.
last update 04.01.2020



Summary 69:
European Data Protection Supervisor (EDPS) — European Union (EU) 2018/1725 decision on the establishment of an independent authority responsible for ensuring that the fundamental rights and freedoms of natural persons, and in particular their right to data protection, with respect to the processing of personal data are respected by the EU institutions, bodies, offices and agencies.
European data protection supervisor: European Union rules on the European Union’s independent authority
European information society (EAS)
SUMMARY OF:
Decision 2018/1825/EU establishing an independent European Union authority, referred to as the European Data Protection Supervisory Supervisor
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DECISION?
It establishes the European data protection supervisory authority, known as the ‘EDPS’.
It sets out the tasks and powers of the EDPS.
KEY POINTS
The EDPS is responsible for:
ensuring the protection of the rights and fundamental freedoms of the natural persons who have the right to their personal data;
protecting the privacy and personal data of EU institutions and bodies, bodies and agencies;
providing independent, reliable, proactive and authoritative advice to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the European Commission on privacy and data protection.
The decision establishes the role of the European Directorate-General for the Protection of the Internal Market (DPB).
The Director-General of the EDPB, who is assisted by the Deputy Director of the Directorate General for the European External Action Service (DGEM) and the Director-general for the Directorate-general of the EU, assists the director-general in the implementation of the decision-making process.
the Director assists the Director in the coordination of the tasks delegated to him or her by the Director.
In addition, the Director is assisted in the management of the office of the Director by a Deputy Director. The Deputy Director is also responsible for the operation of the secretariat.
A Transparency Officer is designated to ensure compliance with Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001 on the handling of public access to documents requests by the European Privacy and Data Protection Board (EDB) secretariat, in accordance with the Memorandum of Understanding between the EPDB and the EPS. The Director also assists in the administration of the Office of the Data Protection Officer.
As regards budget matters, the Authorising Officer exercises his or her function in accordance to the memorandum of understanding between the EU-DPB.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS DECISION APPLY?
From 1 January 2019.
BACKGROUND
The European Union has established a European Union institution, body, office or agency responsible for protecting the rights of the people whose personal data it processes.
For more information, see:
European Union institutions and agencies (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* European Data Supervisor: the independent authority that ensures that the rights, freedoms and fundamental rights of human beings, including the right of access to personal data, are respected in the EU.
* EU institution: body, body or office responsible for collecting and processing personal data.
ACT
Council Decision (EU, Euratom) No 1825/2018 of 21 December 2018 establishing an Independent European Union Authority responsible for safeguarding the fundamental Rights and Fundamental Freedoms of Natural Persons, with regard to the Processing of Personal Data (OJ L 295, 21.12.2018, pp. 39-38)
RELATED ACTS
Council Directive (EU), Euratom and Commission Implementing Decision (Euratom) 2017/1939 of 11 December 2017 establishing a European Data Privacy and Information Society (EDS).
Council Regulation (EU).
Directive 2014/13/EU of the Council of 11 November 2014 establishing a Union institution and body responsible for respecting the fundamental right to privacy and the fundamental freedoms and rights of persons with respect thereto (Directive 2013/504/EU) and repealing Decision 2013/541/EU (Directives 2013/501/EU and 2013/631/EU, 2013/743/EC).
See consolidated version.
Regulation (EC, No 1051/2001, EC, EC and EC) No 552/2001 of the EC, EEC and EC laying down the rules and procedures for the establishment, operation and supervision of the Electronic Data Protection Bureau (EDBs).
Commission Decision 2014/14/EC of 22 December 2014 establishing the European Information Society and establishing a body responsible to ensure the protection and protection of personal Data (DirectIVE 2013/852/EC, EEA and EC).
last update 04.01.2019



Summary 70:
EU’s own resources — financing the COVID-19 crisis and COVID 2020-2027 (OJ L 129, 1.7.2020, pp. 1-11)
EU‘s own resource system
EU's own resources system
SUMMARY OF:
Decision (EU, Euratom) No 609/2014 establishing a system of EU own resources
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DECISION?
It establishes a European Union (EU) system of own resources to cover annual appropriations for payments.
It sets out the rules for the collection and management of EU countries’ own resources.
KEY POINTS
The decision sets out:
a maximum amount that the European Commission may annually call from a Member State to cover its own resources;
a minimum amount of €1.4 billion that the Commission may call from each Member State.
The Commission may also call on the Member States to provisionally provide the difference between the overall assets and the cash resource requirements, in proportion (‘pro rata’) to the estimated budget revenue of each of them.
A Member State which fails to honour a call must remain liable to honour it.
In addition, the Commission is empowered to borrow funds on capital markets on behalf of the EU for the sole and exclusive purpose of financing measures to address the consequences of COVID–19 crisis.
EU countries are free to take the most suitable measures to achieve those goals, in line with the principle of subsidiarity.
Each year, EU countries must:
collect their own resources and make them available to the Commission;
provide the Commission with a balance between the total amount of revenue and the amount of cash they have available.
Collecting own resources:
the Commission must draw up detailed rules for calculating and budgeting the balance of the balance, as well as the arrangements and arrangements necessary for controlling and supervising the collection.
Borrowing: the Commission can borrow up to €2.5 billion from the European Central Bank (ECB) or from the national central banks of Member States. The amount is calculated as a percentage of the sum of the gross national income (GNI) of all Member States, divided by the number of inhabitants of each.
Collection: the EU country must provide the balance between its total revenue and its cash resources. The Commission must calculate the balance in accordance with the rules laid down in the regulation.
Carry-over of surplus: any surplus of the Union's revenue over total actual expenditure during a financial year is carried over to the following financial year.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS DECISION APPLY?
From 1 January 2021.
BACKGROUND
The COVID‑19 crisis led to the creation of the European Union's own resource structure.
For more information, see:
‘The EU’ on the Commission's website.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Decision (EC) No 608/2014 of 21 December 2014 establishing a System of EU Member States’ Own Resources
1.6.2014
2.1.2016
OJ C 130 of 1 January 2014
See consolidated version.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
Communication from the Commission to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions on the implementation of Council Decision (EU), Euratom and the European Atomic Energy Community on the establishment of the system of European Union own resources (COM(2014) 596 final, 30.12.2014)
Commission Decision 2005/270/EC of 20 December 2005 establishing a European System of Own Resources for the financing of the CoVID‐19 crisis (Official Journal L 15 of 30.2.2005)
last update 04.02.2016



Summary 71:
EU rules on the labelling of tyres for heavy-duty vehicle tyres
EU rules governing the EU’s road haulage sector
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) 2019/858 — labelling requirements for tyres
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out rules on how tyres should be labelled to reduce the external rolling noise (external rolling noise) emitted by heavy‐duty vehicles.
It aims to encourage end-users to purchase tyres with lower external rolling noise by providing them with harmonised information on the tyre class and measurement values.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to:
re-treaded tyres;
traffic noise;
vehicle tyres; and
other essential parameters such as fuel efficiency and other essential parameters.
EU countries must ensure that:
the tyre label of a tyre type is clearly visible on the vehicle.
The tyre label must contain the following information:
type of tyre;
class;
number of classes;
internal rolling noise measured value;
wet grip index;
the number of tyres tested.
If a tyre does not meet the requirements, it must be replaced by a new type that meets the requirements.
In addition, the regulation sets out a verification procedure to check that the tyre label complies with the regulation. The test results must be sent to the relevant national authority. The authority must verify that the tyres comply with this regulation. If the measured values meet the declared classes or the declared internal rolling noise value within the verification tolerances referred to in Annex II of the regulation, it may issue a non-binding conformity assessment number (NOMA).
The European Commission may adopt delegated acts to amend the regulation in the light of technical progress. The regulation repeals Regulation (EC) No 1222/2009 with effect from 1 May 2021.
FROM WHEN DOES THE LEGULATION APPLY?
From 1 May 2019.
BACKGROUND
The EU has adopted a number of measures to reduce traffic noise in the EU. These include:
Directive 2019/18/EU on the harmonisation of the rules on road haulier tyres and their trailers (see summary);
Delegated Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2018/857 on the conformity assessment of road hauliers’ tyres and on their trailers;
Regulations (EC, EC, EC) No 552/2009 and (EU), Euratom and Euratom of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2009 on the classification of tyres with respect to fuel efficiency, and on the testing of tyre types.
For more information, see:
Road haulier tyre labelling (European Commission).
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Commission Implementing Decision 2019/965
1.1.2019
-
OJ L 183 of 1.1-2.2019, pp. 1-2
Amending act(s)
Entry in force
deadline for implementation in the member States
Commission Delegated Decision (EU/2020/1)
1-3.2.2021
1-(1)3.3.2022
O(1)4.2)2023
O-(2)5.2).2025
O (3)6.5.2027
O(-2)7.6.2028
O-1.7.2029
O-[1]7.5
O [1]8.5].2030
O[1]9.5]
O*1.6
O(*1.5).2030.2031
O•2.5*.2031.O*3.O.2032.O•3.30.O
Last updated: 27.07.2020



Summary 72:
Implementing Regulation (EU) 2019/1371 on the European Union Customs Union Instrument
Im implementing Regulation (EUR) 2020/1370 on the implementation of Regulation (EC) No 952/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the Union Customs Code
SUMMARY
WHAT DOES THIS REGULATION DO?
It sets up the EU Customs Code (EU Customs Code) Instrument.
It aims to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of customs controls at EU borders.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to all goods entering and exiting the EU’s external borders. It covers:
goods entering the customs territory of the EU;
customs controls with equivalent results;
equipment used to carry out customs controls.
The instrument is implemented through work programmes as referred to in Article 110(2) of the Financial Regulation. It is funded by the EU budget.
Implementation
The Commission implements the instrument under direct management in accordance with the Financial Regulations. The work programmes are designed to:
ensure the interoperability of the customs control equipment purchased with the support of EU programmes and instruments, and therefore its efficient use;
contribute to adequate and equivalent results of customs checks;
provide the Commission with information and communication actions relating to the instrument, to actions taken pursuant to the Instrument and to the results obtained.
Funding
The European Commission is responsible for implementing the work programmes. The Commission is assisted by the European External Action Service (EEAS) and the European Public Prosecutor's Office (EPPO).
the Commission sets up a coordination mechanism to ensure that the equipment purchased under the instrument is interoperable and that it is used effectively.
EU funding
The work programme covers more than one budgetary year, but not more than three. The total cost of the work programme must not exceed the total eligible costs of the action.
Equal treatment and transparency
The EU budget is protected by the principle of non-discrimination. In addition, the Commission must regularly provide information to the public and the public bodies, such as the public authorities, on the instrument and its actions and results.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
This regulation entered into force on 1 January 2019.
BACKGROUND
The customs union is one of the cornerstones of the Union, which is the largest trading blocks in the world. However, there is a serious imbalance in the number of border crossing points in the EU. This imbalance is due to differences between EU countries both in terms of their geographic features, and their capacities and resources.
For more information, see:
EU customs code (European Commission).
MAIN DOCUMENT
 
   கம  
Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2019-1370 of the Parliament and the Council of 11 January 2019 on the Implementation of the Customs Code Instrument (OJ L 157, 1.2.2019, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (UE) 2019–1370 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
  Заганска гранка  глана   барка
Regulations (EU), Euratom and Euratom of the General Assembly of the Member States of the one part, and (EU).
Regulating (EU: Euratom: Euram) No 596/2014, Euram No 597/2014 and Euram (Euratom).
Commission Implementing Decision 2014/852/EU of 22 December 2014 on the establishment of a European Union customs code instrument (OCT-2014/1).
Council Decision (EU): Euram 2018/853 of 23 December 2018 on the creation of a Union customs control instrument (EU-2018/1) (OX-2014).
last update 04.02.2020



Summary 73:
Distribution system operators and energy storage: energy efficiency and energy efficiency (recast of Directive 2012/27/EU)
Distribution System Operators and Energy Storage: Energy efficiency and Energy Efficiency
SUMMARY OF:
Directive (EU) 2019/943 on energy efficiency
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DIRECTIVE?
It aims to improve the efficiency of the EU’s electricity market by:
ensuring the efficient operation of the distribution system and the efficient use of energy resources;
encouraging the use of distributed energy resources such as energy storage;
improving the transparency of the market for energy efficiency.
It recasts and repeals the original electricity directive from 2012.
KEY POINTS
Electricity distribution system operators (DSOs) must:
operate their networks in a non-discriminatory and transparent manner;
ensure that they have the necessary resources to efficiently operate their networks and to avoid costly network expansions;
provide services such as switching, switching, demand response, energy storage and other services.
They must also provide consumers with information on their bills and billing information free of charge.
The directive sets out minimum requirements for the transmission system operator and the energy storage operator.
Transmission system operators must be able to:
use energy resources, such as renewable energy sources and storage facilities, to operate and manage their networks;
use services from distributed energy sources such as demand response;
have the capacity to switch, switch, manage and operate energy storage.
Providers of energy storage must have the capacity necessary to operate their systems.
providers of electricity must be authorised by the national regulatory authorities.
Regulation (EU countries must set up a single point of contact for consumers.
EU countries may also appoint a supplier of last resort.
In addition, EU countries must ensure that:
the transmission system operators are:
cooperating in the transmission market with producers;
operating with producers, including those offering demand response through aggregation, to participate alongside producers in all electricity markets;
participating in energy markets in all EU countries.
National authorities must ensure:
that:
transmission system users have access to the system user authorisation procedure;
the system user who has been refused access can make use of a dispute settlement procedure.
Authorisation procedures must be fair and transparent. They must not lead to administrative burdens that are disproportionate to the size and potential impact of the producers.
If a transmission system user is refused access, it must be informed of the reasons for the refusal and the dispute settlement procedures available to it.
An independent compliance officer must be appointed by the European Commission. The Commission may appoint a compliance officer to carry out inspections, including unannounced inspections, at the premises of the regional coordination centres and to issue joint binding decisions on the regional coordinating centres.
A national authority must ensure the following:
all transmission system users receive all their billing information;
all final customers receive all billing information, including:
billings and billing details;
billing information for electricity services, including switching and switching services;
billing information for energy storage, including billing information for demand response.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS DIRECTIVE APPLY?
From 1 January 2020.
BACKGROUND
The original directive was adopted in 2012 and had to become law in the EU countries by 2012. It was amended in 2013.
For more information, see:
Energy efficiency (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Distribution system operator: the person or body responsible for the operation of a distribution system.
* Energy storage operator: a company or body that manages, operates, manages or operates energy storage facilities.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Commission Implementing Decision (EU, Euratom) 2018/942
1.1.2020
-
OJ L 328 of 21.12.2018
RELATED ACTS
Commission Delegated Regulation (EC) No 715/2009 of 11 December 2009 on the Governance of the Energy Union and Climate Action, amending Regulations (EC, No 663/2009 and (EC), No 716/2009, and repealing Directives 94/22/EC, 98/70/EC and 2009/31/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council, and Directives 2009/73/EU and 2013/30/EU.
Commission Regulation (EU), Euratom and Euratom Regulation (Euratom) 2015/652 of 15 December 2015 laying down detailed rules for the coordination of the energy market and for the harmonisation of the regulatory authorities’ powers.
Communication from the Commission to European Parliament, the Council and the European Economic and Social Committee on the implementation of the electricity efficiency directive (COM(2018) 696 final - Not published in the Official Journal).
Commission Communication from Euratom, the Commission, the European



Summary 74:
European Partnerships for the development of world-class supercomputing systems (EU’s high-performance computing and quantum computing services) (EU-BDVA)
European Partnersions for the Development of World-Class Supercomputing and Quantum Computing Services (EU) (DAIRO)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2018/1046 establishing a European Partnerships Joint Undertaking
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
The regulation establishes a European Partnership (EPSJ) for the European Union (EU).
The purpose of this regulation is to establish a European partnership (EPJ) between the EU, EU countries and non-EU countries to develop and operate the European High Performance Computing (HPC) and Quantum Computers (QC) service and data infrastructure.
The EPSJ is funded by Horizon Europe, the European Research and Innovation Fund (ERIF), the Connecting Europe Facility (CEF) and the European Investment Bank (EIB). It can pool resources from the EU and EU countries’ contributions paid to Horizon Europe and from the Digital Europe Programme or the connecting Europe Facility and the private sector. It can launch research and innovation programmes for developing European technologies and their subsequent integration in world-leading supercomputers.
KEY POINTS
The EPJ consists of:
a governing board composed of representatives of the Union and of the participating countries;
the Executive Director of the EPJ;
members’ financial contributions to the operational costs;
a scientific and technological advisory board;
groups of national experts and trainees.
It is governed by an Industrial and Scientific Advisory Board and an Infrastructure Advisory Group.
the Governing Board decides on the allocation of access time for the users of commercial services, taking into account the outcome of the monitoring referred to in Article 17(11) of the Statutes.
EU financial contributions
The EU financial contribution is used for capability building across the whole EU, including the acquisition, upgrade and operation of High Performance Computers, quantum computers or quantum simulators, the federation of the high-performing computing and QC services and the widening of its use, and development of advanced skills and training.
Non-EU contributions are not subject to State aid rules.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
This regulation entered into force on 1 January 2019.
BACKGROUND
The European Partnership is part of Horizon Europe.
For more information, see:
‘EU-BQC’ on the European Commission's website.
* KEY TERMS
* High performance computing: a system that is capable of processing, analysing, processing and analysing high-quality data in a very fast and efficient way. It consists of a number of components, such as a processor, a memory, a processor and a memory subsystem. It is the most advanced computing system in the world. It has the capability to process, analyse, analyse and analyse data in very high-speed and efficient ways. It also has the ability to process and analyse the results of scientific and technical research.
Quantum computing: the use of a high-powered supercomputer for the generation, processing, analysis and analysis of data. It enables the development, analysis, simulation and simulation of high-precision applications in the field of information and communication technologies. It allows for the creation of a global network of high performance computing services and data networks.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EC) No 1046/2018/EU of 18 July 2018 establishing a joint undertaking between the European Parliament and the Council of 18 June 2018 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the EU (OJ L 193, 30.7.2018, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EU), Euratom, have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
   
Regulations (EU and Euratom):
Commission Decision No 541/2014/EU on the transfer of control of the European Partnership for the implementation of the Horizon Europe programme to the European Innovation Fund and repealing Decision No 966/2012/EU and Decision No 652/2013/EU.
Communication from the Commission to the Parliament, the Council, the Economic and Social Committee, the Committee of the Regions and the Committee on Science, Technology and Innovation (COM(2018) 652 final, 28.5.2018)
Commission Communication from the European Council to the Commission on the establishment of a European Union High-Performance Computing and Quantum computing and Data, AI and Robotics (EU/BDVA 2020/2028) (COM (2018) 596 final, 29.6.2018).
Commission communication from the Council and the Commission: Decision 2014/852/EU establishing a Joint Undergoing between the Union, the EU countries, the EIB and the EU Connecting European Facility for the Implementation of



Summary 75:
EU 2020 climate action plan: carbon capture and storage (CCS)
EU 2020 strategy for climate change
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) 2021/1119 on the EU’s climate-neutrality objective
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to ensure that the EU meets its long-term climate change goal of limiting warming to 1.5 °C by 2020.
It sets out the objectives and measures to achieve this goal.
KEY POINTS
The EU is committed to stepping up efforts to tackle climate change and to delivering on the implementation of the Paris Agreement adopted under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (the ‘Paris Agreement’). The EU has adopted a climate action strategy for the period 2020-2040. This strategy aims to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and to reduce the likelihood of extreme weather events and of reaching tipping points.
To achieve this, the EU must:
reduce its greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions to below 2 % by 2020;
ensure that its economy is carbon-neutral by 2030;
take action to reduce its GHG emissions by 20 % by 2050.
The regulation sets out:
the EU 2020 climate target, which is based on the greenhouse gas emission reduction target set out in the Paris agreement;
the target for the EU 2040 greenhouse gas budget, which includes the emission reduction of 0.5 % of GHG by 2020 and the emission reductions of 1 % by 2040;
carbon removals (carbon capture, storage and transportation (CSPs) by 2030.
EU countries must also commit to reducing their GHGCO2 emissions by at least 1 % of their total GHGDPs by 2020, and by 1 % in 2030. This is without prejudice to the review of the relevant EU legislation in order to enable the EU to achieve the target.
In addition, the regulation also sets out a framework for the certification of carbon removal and verification of carbon accounting, while ensuring that there are no negative impacts on the environment, in particular biodiversity, on public health or on social or economic objectives.
A Commission Advisory Board is composed of 15 senior scientific experts covering a broad range of relevant disciplines. It advises the Commission and the European Parliament and the Council on the formulation of the EU climate strategy.
FROM WHEN DOES THE LEGULATION APPLY?
   
It applies from 11 March 2020. EU countries had to incorporate it into national law by 11 March 2021.
BACKGROUND
The European Commission adopted the EU 2020 Climate Action Plan in December 2018. It also provided initial guidance on its implementation.
For more information, see:
‘Climate action plan for a cleaner and more competitive Europe’ on the European Commission's website.
MAIN DOCUMENT
 
Council Regulation (EC) No 401/2009 of 11 December 2009 on the achievement of the climate objective of the European Union (Paris Agreement) (OJ L 283, 11.12.2009, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EU, 2018/842 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
  (1) Implementing Decision of the Council and of the Representatives of the Governments of the Member States of the Union, meeting within the Council of 21 December 2018 on the adoption of the Circular Economy Action Plan for a Cleaner and More Competitive Europe (Official Journal C 202, 22.1.2019, pp 1-2)
Commission Decision of 11 March 2019 on the establishment of the Advisory Board for the Implementation of the Climate Strategy for the Union (Official J C 202 of 22.5.2019)
last update 04.02.2021



Summary 76:
Third Programme for the Union’s action in the field of health (2014-2020)
Third programme for the EU's action on the health sector
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2018/1046 on the third programme in the area of health
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes the framework for the third European Union (EU) health programme.
It aims to support actions that foster the production, procurement and management of crisis-relevant products within the EU to mitigate the risk of shortages, while ensuring complementarity with other Union instruments.
KEY POINTS
The programme is funded by the general budget of the EU. It covers the period 2014-2020.
EU countries and participating countries have designated national focal points to assist the Commission in the promotion of the programme, where relevant, in the dissemination of its results and the information available on its impact in the Member States and countries.
The Commission adopts delegated acts to implement the programme. The Commission may adopt delegated acts in the light of the specific circumstances of a programme with substantial implications.
Eligible actions
Actions covered by the programme are those that:
contribute to the prevention and control of the spread of communicable diseases;
promote the prevention, control and prevention of epidemics;
improve preparedness and response planning for health emergencies;
provide technical assistance and training for health professionals;
ensure the exchange of information on health-related products and services;
facilitate the exchange and exchange of best practice;
support the development of information and best practice in the development and dissemination of best practices;
foster the production and procurement of health-relevant goods and services.
Procurement in health emergency situations
The European Commission is responsible for the procurement of the products covered by this programme and the management of the emergency situation.
In addition, the programme provides financial support for actions that promote:
the production of products with a high level of Union added value;
the exchange of knowledge and experience;
improving the quality of health information and training;
contributions to research and development;
enhancing the capacity of EU countries to respond to health emergencies.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
The regulation entered into force on 1 January 2019.
BACKGROUND
The third programme is part of the European Union's general budget.
For more information, see:
‘Health’ on the European Commission's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Emergency situation: a situation where there is a risk of a shortage of a specific product or service.
ACT
Commission Regulation (Euratom) No 1046/2018 of 18 July 2018 on the financial rules applicable to the general budgetary framework of the Union.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition into force
Official Journal
Commission Implementing Regulation (EC) No 1080/2018
1.1.2019
-
OJ L 183 of 21.8.2018
RELATED ACTS
Communication from the Commission to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions: ‘The third Programme in the Area of Health (2014–2020)’ (COM(2018) 609 final of 21 October 2018)
Communications from the European Council, European Parliament and the Council of 21 September 2018: The European Union‘s general budget for the year 2014–2020 (OJ C 202 of 22.10.2018).
Last updated: 27.02.2020



Summary 77:
Programme for the promotion of European audiovisual works (2020-2027 MFF)
Programmes for the prevention and eradication of poverty and social exclusion: the European Union (EU) 2021-2028 MFF
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2021/523 establishing a European Union programme for education and culture
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes a multiannual EU programme for the period 2021 to 2027.
It aims to support the EU commitment relating to the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in particular its cultural dimension.
KEY POINTS
The programme supports the EU’s commitment to the SDGs by:
encouraging the development of a culture-based economy;
promoting the exchange of information, skills and knowledge between EU countries;
supporting the creation of a knowledge-based society based on the exchange and dissemination of information and culture;
raising awareness of the importance of the EU's cultural heritage.
The objectives of the programme are to:
promote the European dimension of the UN sustainable development goals;
contribute to the sustainable development of the European economy through the promotion and diversification of its activities;
encourage the creation and diffusion of knowledge in the fields of education, culture and the information society;
strengthen the exchange between EU and non-EU countries, in particular through the exchange, dissemination and sharing of information on the EU policies and programmes;
improve the quality of education and training of teachers and students;
facilitate access to the dissemination of knowledge and training materials;
increase the sharing of best practice in the field;
provide training and training in the areas of culture and information and communication technology (ICT);
support the creation, dissemination of and exchange of best practices and best practices in the area of information society.
In addition, the programme aims to promote the European vision of a Europe that is open to all people, including women and men.
To this end, the European Commission is responsible for implementing the programme. It is assisted by a steering committee composed of representatives of EU countries and chaired by the European Parliament and the Council. The programme is funded by the EU budget and is managed by the Commission.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULATIONS APPLY?
The regulation applies from 1 January 2021.
BACKGROUND
The European Union has a long-term commitment to promoting education and cultural diversity in Europe. This is achieved through a number of initiatives, including:
the InvestEU Programme for Education and Culture, which aims to improve the quality and diversity of education in Europe;
the European Commission's Multiannual Development Fund (MFF), which supports the implementation of EU policies on education, training and mobility.
For more information, see:
InvestEU programme (European Commission).
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EU), Euratom, of 21 December 2021 establishing a programme for educational and culture (OJ L 183, 1.1.2021, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (Euratom) No 182/2011 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
Council Decision (EC) No 596/2013 of 27 June 2013 establishing a multilateral development fund for education (OCT) (O J L 183 of 27.6.2013, pp 1-2)
See consolidated version.
Commission Implementing Decision (EU/2020/2027 of 27 May 2020 establishing a Multiannial Development Fund for education, Training and Mobility (OJC) (J L 81, 28.3.2020, p. 1)
Commission Decision (EEC) 2020/2093 of 27 February 2020 establishing the multiannial development fund (OIC) (EJ L 107, 26.2.2027, pp 2-9)
last update 04.02.2022



Summary 78:
European Institute of Innovation and Technology (EIT) 2021-2027 strategic plan for the seven-year period 2021 to 2027 (SIA 2021-2020)
European Institute OF INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY (Eit) 2021 - 2027 strategy for the seventh-year of its existence
SUMMARY OF:
Decision (EU) 2021/695 establishing the strategy and the priorities for the European institute of innovation and technology
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DECISION AND THE STRATEGIC AGENDA?
The decision sets out the priority fields and the strategy for research and innovation (R&I) activities conducted by the European Institute for Innovation & Technology (the EIT).
The strategy, which is based on a multiannual grant agreement, aims to establish the EIT’s key actions and to assess its impact on the social, economic and environmental impact, its outreach activities and its capacity to generate best innovation added-value.
KEY POINTS
The EIT is funded by a budget of €2.8 billion (96 % of the total EIT budget) which is to be distributed to the European Innovation Innovation Centre (KICs). The KICs are to develop and implement revenue-creating strategies in order to maintain their innovation ecosystem and knowledge triangle activities beyond the period covered by the grant agreements. The EIT will also provide financial support for the research and development activities of the KIC.
The KIC on WMM will establish the strongest possible synergies with relevant EU policy initiatives as well as with relevant UN initiatives and the SDGs, in particular SDGs such as SDGs and the Sustainable Cities and Communities, in the area of clean water and sustainable cities and communities, and with relevant international initiatives such as the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development (SDGs) and SDG 13 ‘Life below Water’.
A total of €1.5 billion will be allocated to the RIS, which will support research, innovation and technological development (R & T) activities in the areas of education, training and entrepreneurship. The RIS will be based on sound methodological evidence with eight capacity development areas: Leadership and Governance; Digital Transformation; Organisational Capacity; Entrepreneurial Teaching and Learning; Preparing and Supporting Entrepreneurs; Knowledge Exchange; Internationalisation; and Measuring Impact.
In addition, a maximum of 3 % will be dedicated to a pilot higher education initiative of three years.
Funding for the RIS will come from the European Research and Innovation Fund (ERIF) and the European Investment Bank (EIB) and will be divided equally between the RIS and EIT.
Support for cross-KIC activities will be provided by the EIB, the EIF and the EU countries’ governments.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS DECISION APPLY?
It has applied since 1 January 2021.
BACKGROUND
The European Innovation Centre is one of the European Union's (EU's) seven innovation institutes. It is based in Brussels and is responsible for the development and implementation of the EU's innovation ecosystem.
For more information, see:
European Innovation Centre on the European Commission's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Innovation centre: an innovation centre that supports research, development and technological innovation (i.e. R & T).
* Research and development: an institute that supports the development of innovative products and services.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Decision (EU, Euratom) 2019/852 of 1 January 2019 establishing the Strategic Agenda for the Seventh-year Strategic Plan 2021–2027 (OJ L 157, 1.2.2019, pp. 1–8)
RELATED DOCUMENTS
   
 
Regulation (EU), Euratom, Eurathea, Euronews, Euramatic, Euromatic, Eurojust, Eurastat, Eurostat, Eurobarometer, Euro-Mediterranean, Eurofinance, Europaea, Euroconomy, EuroSafeguard and Eurostat: The European Innovation Fund for the 7-year strategic plan 2021–1927 (EURO 2020/2027) (S&T 2020/21) (COM(2016) 696 final, 30.3.2016)
Regulations (EU and Euratom), Euramagic, Eurasafrica, Eurobanca, Europol, Eurosafeguards, Eurocom, Eurofero, Euromarche, Eurocar and Eurofiscal, Eurocorps: the European innovation fund for the next 7 years (Euratom 2020/2020/2020) (Eurobarometer 2016/636 final, 31.4.2016), Euro-Corps 2020/1930/2021 (Euro-Marche 2016/521 final, 29.6.2020) and Eurocorporation 2020/531 final, 28.5.2020).
Council Regulation (EU



Summary 79:
Protection of certain aromatised wine products — rules for their presentation, presentation, labelling and labelling (Regulation (EU) No 1169/2011) (OJ L 10, 12.2.2011, pp. 1-26)
Protection and labels of certain aromatic wine products
Protected wine products: rules for the presentation, description, presentation and protection of geographical indications of certain products
SUMMARY
WHAT DOES THIS REGULATION DO?
It sets out the rules applicable to the definition, description and presentation of aromatisation products*.
It aims to ensure that these products comply with the EU’s general rules on the protection of wine products, while taking into account traditional production methods.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to:
aromatised fortified wine-based drink (a wine which has been added to alcohol to increase its alcoholic strength by more than 7% and which is obtained from white wine under the same conditions as for Sangría/Sangria;
an aromatic wine produced in a more restricted region (e.g. Chardonnay);
wine produced in an area of the Alps or in the Pyrenees.
It does not apply to the presentation or labelling of products which are produced in other EU countries.
Products may not be labelled as ‘aromatised wines’ or ‘wine-based drinks’.
The European Commission may, by means of implementing acts, adopt delegated acts, decide to adopt a geographical indication (GID) for a specific category of product. The GID may also be used for other categories of products.
Existing geographical designations
The Commission may adopt implementing acts to supplement the GID for products which fall within the scope of the regulation. These may include:
the designation ‘Sangría’;
the name of the EU country of production or of a restricted region;
a description of the production processes and methods of analysis for aromatising wine products; and
the information to be provided in the product specification with regard to the link between the geographical area and the final product.
Trans-border applications
EU countries may submit applications for protection to the Commission. The Commission must examine the application for protection in order to verify whether it meets the conditions set out in this regulation. If it considers that the product does not meet the conditions for protection, it may reject the application.
If an application is rejected, the Commission may:
take all necessary measures related to the protection;
make the decision on protection or rejection available to the public;
checks and verification to be carried out by the EU countries, including testing.
References
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Regulation(EU) 2011/1169
12.2-26
1.1.2012
-
OJ C 202 of 12.3.2011
RELATED ACTS
Commission Implementing Regulation (EC) No 552/2009 of 23 June 2009 on the definition of the term ‘sugars’ in relation to certain wines intended for human consumption and repealing Council Directive 2001/111/EC of 20 December 2001 relating to certain sugars intended to human consumption.
Commission Delegated Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 1082/2008 of 22 June 2008 on the classification of wines intended to be consumed with alcohol.
See consolidated version.
last update 04.02.2016



Summary 80:
Conservation of European Union (EU) fish stocks
Conservation and conservation measures
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 1380/2013 on the conservation and conservation of EU fishing stocks
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out the EU’s fishing stocks for the period 2014-2020.
It aims to ensure that the conservation of fish stocks in EU waters is maintained, taking into account scientific, technical and economic advice, including, where relevant, reports drawn up by the Scientific, Technical and Economic Committee for Fisheries (STECF) and other advisory bodies, as well as any advice received from advisory councils.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to the following vessels:
Union fishing vessels;
third-country vessels in Union waters;
non-EU fishing vessels in non-EU waters.
Maximum fishing quotas are set out in Annex II to the regulation.
EU countries must not exceed 9 % of the quota.
Fishing, farming and fattening capacity limitations
The European Commission must ensure that:
fisheries are not overfished;
fishing and farming capacities are not exceeded;
there are no limits on the number of fish caught;
the catch-and-release practice and the bag limits are maintained.
The Commission must take all necessary measures to prevent overfishing.
In addition, the Commission must:
ensure that fishing vessels comply with the conservation measures laid down in the regulation;
take the necessary scientific and technical advice;
not exceed the quota;
monitor and report to the Commission on the implementation of the measures taken;
make recommendations to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the European Commission on conservation and sustainable fishing.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
It entered into force on 1 May 2014.
BACKGROUND
   Â 
The EU fisheries system is based on the principle of sustainable fishing and conservation. It is designed to ensure the long-term sustainability of the EU fishing sector.
For more information, see:
EU fishing stocks (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Fishing stocks: fish stocks are defined as the total number of species caught in a given to each EU country.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EU), Euratom, of 1 April 2014, on the Conservation and Conservation of Union Fishing stocks (Cod and White Marlin Regulation) (OJ L 94, 1.5.2014, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (Euratom, Eurathea, Euram) No 94 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
 
Regulations (EC) No 552/2014, (EC), No 553/2014 and (ECA) No 652/2013 of the European Council and of the Council of 11 March 2014 on the European Union fishing stocks, and repealing Regulations (EC, EC, EC and EC) No 1201/2004, (EUEC, EEA, EC), No 1202/2004 and (EUEA) No 1101/2005 of the same Parliament and Council and repealing Council Regulations (EEC, EFTA, ECEC, EUEC and EFTA) No 1401/2006, (EEA, EEC, EETA, EU EC, EU EETA and EC), (EUEE, EUEE, ECEA, EUE, EUEFTA and EEA) and repealing Regulation (ECB) No 1501/2008 of the General Assembly and Council.
See consolidated version.
Commission Implementing Decision 2014/852/EU of 27 March 2014 laying down the conservation, conservation, sustainable fishing, sustainable farming and sustainable farming capacity limits for EU fisheries and repealing Decision (EUEU) No 852/2004 of the United Kingdom and Ireland, and Commission Implementing Directive 2014/10/EU (EUEFTA) 2015/1101/EU.
Directive 2014/20/EU on the sustainable management of fisheries and aquaculture (EUFTA) (EUO 2015/1202/EU) (see summary) (See summary)
See summary.
last update 04.02.2020



Summary 81:
EU macro-financial assistance to Ukraine
EU macro–financial assistance for Ukraine
SUMMARY OF:
Decision (EU) 2018/852 on the European Union’s economic and financial assistance for the stabilisation of Ukraine
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DECISION?
It authorises the EU to provide financial assistance to the Ukrainian authorities in order to help the country stabilise its economy.
KEY POINTS
The decision authorises a financial assistance programme of up to €2.8 billion for the period 2018-2022.
The assistance is provided under a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with the International Monetary Fund (IMF).
The European Commission is responsible for managing the assistance. It is assisted by a committee composed of the European Central Bank (ECB) and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD).
Under the terms of the MOU, the assistance is to be provided in two equal instalments: €1.5 billion for 2018 and €2 billion for 2019. The first instalment is due to be released in November 2018. The second is due in June 2022.
In order to ensure uniform conditions for the implementation of the assistance, the European Commission and the Council of the EU have conferred powers on the Commission to:
decide on the disbursement of the financial assistance, subject to the fulfilment of certain conditions;
ensure that the economic policy and financial conditions are met;
implement the programme;
monitor the progress made by the authorities;
provide the European institutions with the relevant documents;
take decisions on the release of the loans.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS DECISION APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 September 2018.
BACKGROUND
The EU provided the IMF with financial assistance from 1 September 2017 until the end of June 2021. This brought total disbursements under the current IMF programme to the equivalent of USD 2,8 billion thus far.
For more information, see:
‘Economic and Financial Assistance for Ukraine (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Financial assistance: a financial instrument designed to support the economic recovery and stability of a country.
MAIN DOCUMENTS
Council Decision (EU, Euratom) No 852/2018 of 21 September 2018 on the provision of European Union macro–economic assistance (OJ L 283, 31.10.2018, pp. 1-5)
RELATED DOCUMENT
 
  Еганска народна гранка (EU-Ukraine Economic and Financial Coordination Decision) of 27 June 2018 on macro-economic assistance for economic and Financial Stability (OCT-2018/853) (Official Journal L 283 of 31.11.2018)
See consolidated version.
last update 04.02.2021



Summary 82:
Fishing of swordfish in the Mediterranean: EU control system for ensuring compliance with the rules of the common fisheries policy (2018-2022)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) 2019/852 — EU control measures for the conservation of Mediterranean swordfish
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out EU-wide rules on the conservation and management of the swordfish (Swordfish) caught and landed in the European Union (EU).
KEY POINTS
EU countries must:
ensure that swordfish fishing vessels comply with the EU’s rules on fishing and catch;
take swordfish within their annual fishing quotas and inform the European Commission of the number and type of fish caught, retained on board and landed;
report to the ICCAT Secretariat the number, type and quantity of fish they have caught, landed and landed.
Each year, EU countries must transmit a list of designated ports to the Commission. The Commission must send that information to the Secretariat by 30 April, 30 July and 30 October of each year and by 30 January of the following year.
By-catch
Each EU country must inform the Commission when transmitting its annual fishing plan in accordance with Article 9 of the EU rules on by-catch. This information must include:
the number of fish it has caught;
the length (LJFL) and live weight (live weight) of each swordfish caught; and the date and port of landing or transhipment;
details of the fishing vessel and the number of vessels involved;
fishing authorisations issued;
records of the total number of fishing vessels registered in the EU.
Inspectors must be able to carry out their duties safely and securely.
Vessels must be accompanied by a model identity card. The card must contain the vessel's name and Union fleet register number (CFR) as defined in Annex I to Commission Implementing Regulation (EC) 2017/218 (see summary).
The Commission must transmit the information on vessels to the International Commission for the Conservation of Atlantic Tunas (ICCAT) by 30 June each year. It must also send the information to ICCAT by 30 July, 30 October and 30 January the following the end of the calendar year and send it to the secretariat.
Monitoring and reporting
The European Commission must collect and report data on:
fisheries and catches;
by-catch;
catch data, including length, live weight and number of live fish landed; and
recreational fishing gear.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
The regulation applies from 15 February 2019.
BACKGROUND
The EU is a party to the Convention on International Law of the Sea (CITES) and is responsible for managing its fisheries.
For more information, see:
Swordfish (European Commission).
* KEY TERMS
* By-catch: the catch of fish that is by-caught in the context of a fishing plan.
* Swordfish: swordfish that is caught by a fishing vessel for commercial purposes.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EEC) No 552/2018 of 15 January 2019 establishing a Union control system to ensure the conservation, management and control of the fisheries of the Mediterranean (codification) (OJ L 183, 15.2.2019, pp. 1-3)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2019-852 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
   
 
Commission Implementing Regulations (EC, EC, EC) No 1224/2009 of 20 November 2009 establishing a system for the implementation of the European fisheries policy, amending Regulations (e.g. Council Regulation (C) No 847/96, (EC), No 2371/2002, (EU), No 768/2005, (E) No 2115/2005 and (EC).
See consolidated version.
Council Decision (ECB) No 676/2007 of 20 December 2007 establishing a European fisheries surveillance system for monitoring and reporting the Mediterranean fisheries and repealing Regulations (i.e. Council Decision No 1248/2006, (i) No 496/2008, (ii) No 1098/2007 and (iii) No 1342/2008.
Commission Decision (CFSP) 2018/2022 of 15 December 2018 establishing a common fisheries surveillance and reporting system to monitor the fisheries and catch data of the Atlantic bluefin tuna (codified version). See consolidated version of the regulation.
last update 04.02.2022



Summary 83:
Multiannual financial framework (MFF) for the period 2014-2020 (EU-28) (European Commission)
Multiiannual Financial framework for the years 2014-2020 (European Union)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 28/2014 on the multiannual budgetary framework
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out the EU’s financial framework, known as the ‘MFF’.
It aims to provide the EU with a consistent and predictable financial framework for a period of 7 years starting on 1 January 2014.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The MFF covers the period from 2014 to 2020. It covers:
the general budget of the EU and Euratom;
the European Social Fund (ESF), the European Investment Bank (ESB) and the European Regional Development Fund (ERASMUS);
the EU budget;
budgetary arrangements for the EU countries;
other special instruments.
The European Commission is responsible for drawing up and implementing the MFF. The European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions have the power to adopt the budget.
Categories of expenditure
The EU budget covers the following categories of expenditure:
general budget:
spending on the general budget, including expenditure resulting from any relevant decision taken unanimously by the Council after consulting the European Parliament and the Council;
revenue from the European External Action Service (Euratom);
all expenditure and revenue of the European Union (EU);
spend on the European social security system (ESSESF);
other expenditure, such as:
revenues from the ESF;
recurring expenditure from the EEA;
administrative expenditure (e.g. social security and pensions);
reciprocal expenditure (spending of EU countries’ contributions to the EU budget).
The budget also includes:
investment appropriations (i.e. payments made by EU countries to the European Commission for the implementation of EU policies and programmes;
contributions made by the Commission to EU countries for the financing of their own budgets;
spontaneous expenditure (including payments from EU countries);
contribution payments (including contributions from the Commission);
administration payments (in the form of grants, loans and grants to the Commission).
Special instruments
The Commission may use special instruments such as the Emergency Aid Reserve (EASR), which is designed to provide financial support to countries in the event of serious financial difficulties. It may be mobilised only in relation to an amending or annual budget. The EASR may also be used for specific policy objectives relating to youth employment, research, ERASMUs in particular for apprenticeships, small and medium-sized enterprises, and Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
The regulation entered into force on 3 July 2014. It repeals Regulation (EC) No 1927/2006.
BACKGROUND
   Â  
For more information, see:
‘The European Multiannual Fiscal Framework’ on the Commission's website.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EU)-28/2014 of 3 June 2014 establishing a multiannually budgetary framework (OJ L 6, 3.7.2014, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EJ L 12, 4.3.2015, 6.4.2016 and 6.5.2017 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
Council Decision (CFSP) 2015/852 of 27 May 2015 on the establishment of a European Social and Investment Fund (EFSF) and repealing Council Decision (EEC, Euratom) No 27/2006 of 20 December 2006 on establishing the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (Official Journal L 406, 30.12.2015).
See consolidated version.
Commission Implementing Decision (EU/2014/2013 of 28 May 2013 laying down the annual budget for the financial year 2014–2020 (Official J L 347, 28.6.2013, p. 1)
last update 04.01.2016



Summary 84:
European Maritime, Fisheries and Aquaculture Fund (EMFAF)
European Maritime and Fisheries Fund
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) 2021/1060 — EMFAF
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out the EU’s financial rules for the implementation of the European Maritime Fund for the period from 1 January 2021 to 31 December 2027.
KEY POINTS
The European Maritime Facility for the Faroes, Madeira, Guadeloupe, French Guiana, Martinique, Mayotte, Réunion, Saint-Martin and Saint-Pierre-et-Miquelon (EMF) is a multiannual EU financial instrument. It aims to support the sustainable development of the Faroe Islands, the Azores and Madeira and the Canary Islands in the fishing sector.
The EMF is managed by the European Commission. It is funded by the EU budget.
It is managed and administered by the Commission.
Funding
Each EU country must allocate, within its EU financial support set out in Annex V, at least:
EUR 102 000 000 for the islands located in the outermost regions of the Atlantic Ocean;
EU financial support of at least €82 000 for Madeira; and
EU funding of €131 000 for:
the Canary Islands;
the Azores.
EU countries must ensure that:
fisheries are not overfished;
fishing activities are sustainable;
there is no overfishing.
Fisheries in the Mediterranean Sea of Azores are sustainable.
There are specific eligibility rules for investments in fishing vessels, such as:
increase in the gross tonnage of a fishing vessel to improve safety, working conditions or energy efficiency;
increased in the number of fishing vessels in the fleet;
improvement in the environmental, economic, social and employment aspects of the fishing fleet.
In addition, the EMF must:
ensure that vessels are equipped with the necessary equipment and equipment to meet the requirements for sustainable fishing;
avoid and reduce, as far as possible, unwanted catches and minimising the negative impact of fishing activities on the marine ecosystem.
Eligible investments are:
investments in the marine environment;
investment in marine research and development;
research and development of marine technologies;
reciprocal access to fishing vessels.
Financial management
The Commission may adopt implementing acts to define the cases of non-compliance with the payment deadline. The Commission may also adopt delegated acts to deal with the non-fulfilment of payment deadlines. The EMF has a budget of EUR 6 108 000 000 in current prices.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
It entered into force
1 January 2021.
BACKGROUND
   
The EU has adopted a common fisheries policy, known as the Common Fisheries Policy (CFP), which aims to restore and maintain populations of harvested species above levels which can produce sustainable yield (MSY) and to minimise the negative impacts of fishing on marine ecosystems.
For more information, see:
EU fisheries policy (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Sustainable yield: the amount of MSY that a fishery can produce in a given year.
* Fishing vessel: a vessel designed and built to carry out commercial fishing activities.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 1096/2011 of 24 June 2011 laying down the general rules applicable to the European maritime, fisheries and aquaculture fund and laying down specific rules for providing Union funding, complementing Regulation (EC) No 1380/2013 of the EU Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 231, 30.6.2011, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (Euratom) no 1096 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
 
  Ег   барска гарка  годна 
Commission Implementing Decision 2006/852/EC of 27 May 2006 establishing a European Maritime Fisheries Fund and repealing Regulations (EC, EC, EC) No 1224/2009, (EC), No 1225/2009 and (ECB) No 768/2009.
Council Decision 2008/853/EC establishing a common Fisheries Fund (EC and EC) and repealing Council Regulations (EEC, EEA, EC and EEA) No 852/2008, (EEA, EFTA, EC), No 853/2008 and (EFS) No 906/2008.
See consolidated version.
Communication from the Commission to European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee, the Committee of the Regions and the Committee on Fisheries (COM(2008) 549 final, 27.5.2008)
Commission



Summary 85:
Convention on the conservation and management of straddling fish stocks and highly migratory fish stocks (Obligations Regulation)
Convention of the United Nations Convention on the Conservation and Management of Straddling Fish Stocks and Highly Migratory Fish Stock
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 1005/2008 establishing a Community system to prevent, deter and eliminate illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out rules for the conservation, management and control of species of fish stocks covered by the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES) and the Agreement for the Implementation of that Convention relating to the Conservation, Management and Regulation relating to:
Conservation and management measures for species covered by CITES
The regulation applies to all fishing vessels flying the flag of the European Union (EU).
KEY POINTS
The convention covers:
fishing in the Pacific Ocean between the 50°S parallel from its intersection with meridian 150°W until the intersection with Meridian 130°W;
fisheries in the Indian Ocean from 1 January to 31 December of the previous year.
EU countries must report to the Commission the trade data collected by their authorities each year for bigeye tuna and hammerhead sharks caught and released;
the number and status (dead or alive) of silky sharks, hammerhead shark and bigeye sharks caught, frozen and released.
Vessels and purse seine vessels flying their flag that were actively fishing in the convention area must record the number of silkies and hammerheads caught and the year before the regulation came into force.
The European Commission must submit a report every 5 years to the European Parliament, the Council and the European Economic and Social Committee on the implementation of the convention.
Fishing vessels must:
ensure that all reasonable steps are taken to ensure its safe release;
report the incident to the EU country concerned, including the number and details of how and why the encirclement happened, where it occurred, steps taken to guarantee safe release, and an assessment of the life status of the animal(s) on release (including whether any were released alive but subsequently died).
Observers on EU fishing vessels must record:
number and status* of the silky shark caught and fished;
number of hammerheads and silkies caught, fished and frozen;
weight of the fish caught;
total number and weight of the fished fish.
In addition, EU countries must notify the International Association for the Conservation of Antarctic Marine Living Resources (IATTC) of the number, weight and status of all the fish they have caught, caught or fished in the Convention area. The Commission must forward that information to the IATTC Secretariat by 30 June.
Monitoring of fishing vessels
The Commission must collect data on:
total catches and fattened fish caught by vessels flying its flag;
captures of fished bigeye fish;
trafficking in live sea turtles;
unfished sea turtles caught by purse seines;
recovered sea turtles that have been illegally caught and frozen.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 January 2009.
BACKGROUND
 
The Convention of 10 December 1982 on the Law of the Sea (OJ L 286, 29.10.1982, pp. 1-5)
For more information, see:
International Convention of the International Union for Conservation of the Wild fauna and flora of the Seas (OCTES) (European Commission).
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EU) No 1049/2008 of 29 September 2008 establishing a European system for preventing, deterring and eliminating illegal fishing, amending Regulations (EEC, EC) No 2847/93, (EC, EFTA) No 601/2004 and repealing Regulations (EC), No 1093/94 and (EC).
Successive amendments and corrections to Regulation (UJ L 294, 30.11.2008, have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
  ARTICLE
Council Decision 98/392/EC of 20 June 1998 on the signing, on behalf of the EU, of the Convention of 12 December 1982 establishing a Union system for the protection and conservation of the living resources of the sea and the agreement for the implementation by the EU of the Protocol relating to conservation and managing of the Straddled Fish Stock and the Highly Migration Fish Stock, and repealing Council Regulation (EC" No 1094/94, (EU" No 596/2004, (EEA) No 597/2006 and (EU") No 598/2006.
See consolidated version.
last update 04.01.2020



Summary 86:
Delegated and implementing acts — Common Understanding between the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission on Delegated Delegations (2016-2020 Common Understanding)
European Parliament, Council and Commission common understanding on delegated and implementing* acts
European Union (EU) Member States have agreed on a common understanding establishing a common set of tools for better law-making.
SUMMARY OF:
Common Understanding on delegated acts and on the related standard clauses
Decision 2016/852/EU on the adoption of delegated acts
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DECISION AND THE AGREEMENT?
The decision and the agreement aim to improve the efficiency of the EU’s legislative and implementing processes.
The agreement establishes a common approach to the drafting, adoption and evaluation of EU legislation. It aims to ensure that EU legislation is more efficient, effective, relevance, coherence and value added.
KEY POINTS
Scope and general principles
The three institutions agree to:
ensure consistency and coherence in organising their work to evaluate the performance of Union legislation;
encourage the participation of the public and stakeholder in the drafting and implementation of EU law;
promote the exchange of information between the Commission and the Member States’ experts on EU legislation and its impact assessments;
take account of the views expressed by the EU countries at each stage of the legislative process;
cooperate in the preparation of draft delegated acts.
Delegislative procedure
The Commission adopts delegated acts in line-by-line. It adopts a delegated acts on the basis of a proposal from the Commission. It then consults the Member State concerned. The Commission then adopts the delegated acts with the support of the national authorities.
Implementing acts
The delegated acts adopted by the Commission must be accompanied by a report on the implementation of the delegated act. The report must include a summary of the measures taken and the results of public consultations and feedback on the draft act. It must also include a description of the conditions under which the Commission may adopt a delegated act and the reasons for the use of the urgency procedure (i.e. the need to avoid undue delays in that process). The Commission may also adopt delegated acts without the consent of the Council or the Parliament.
Public consultation and feedback
Before adopting a proposal, the Commission will conduct public consultations in an open and transparent way, ensuring that the modalities and time-limits of those public consultations allow for the widest possible participation. This will include public internet-based consultations.
National authorities must be consulted in a timely manner on each draft delegated act prepared by the commission services. They must also be consulted on the conclusions of the Commission services’ evaluations of existing legislation and policy.
Transparency and coordination
The European Commission must ensure that national authorities’ information and communication systems are in place to ensure the transparency and coordination of the work carried out by delegated acts, as well as the coordination of information and communications.
Empowerment
A delegated act may be bundled if there is a substantive link between two or more empowerments contained in a single legislative act, and unless the legislative act provides otherwise, it must be bundled.
If the Commission considers that a legislative act does not meet the criteria for being bundled, it may not adopt it.
In this context, it is important to note that the Commission is empowered to adopt delegated powers in accordance with Article 155(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) and that the powers conferred on the Commission are subject to the same conditions as those applicable to the other institutions.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
The Decision and agreement entered into force on 13 April 2016.
BACKGROUND
The EU has adopted a number of measures aimed at improving the efficiency, effectiveness, relevance and value-added of its legislation. These include:
the European Commission work programme and interinstitutional programming;
the implementation of its work programme.
For more information, see:
Better lawmaking (European Commission).
MAIN DOCUMENTS
Council Decision (EC) No 852/2016/EU of 13.4.2016 concerning the adoption, on behalf of the Union, of a common agreement between the Council, the European Commission, and the European Atomic Energy Community (OJ L 347, 13.8.2016, pp. 1-8)
Common Agreement between the Parliament, of the one part, the EU Member States and the Council of 13 March 2016 on the adopting, adopting, amending or amending of delegated or implementing acts in Union law.
Successive amendments to Decision 2016/884/EU have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
Consolidated version of the Common Agreement on the Implementation of Delegating and Implementing Acts in Union Law.
last update 04.02.2020



Summary 87:
Citizens’ initiatives for the implementation of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) and the EU’s common foreign and security policy (CFSP)
Citizens' initiatives for implementing the Treaty of Lisbon
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 552/2011 on the submission of proposals for a legal act of the Union for the purpose of implementing the Treaties similar to the right conferred on the European Parliament under Article 225 of the TFEU and on the Council under Article 241 of the TFEU.
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes a procedure for citizens’ organisations to submit proposals to the European Commission for the adoption of legal acts to implement the treaties of the EU.
It aims to improve the transparency of the legal acts adopted by EU countries.
KEY POINTS
Organisers must:
be citizens;
be of the age to be entitled to vote in elections to the EU Parliament and the Council;
have at least seven members who are residents of at least 7 different EU countries;
form a citizens' committee consisting of representatives from at least three EU countries and at least one representative from each EU country.
The Commission must establish a point of contact which provides information and assistance.
EU countries must ensure that the organisers collect statements of support within a specific time limit. They must also:
use the online collection system to collect the statements;
ensure that the statements are signed by at least 750 people;
verify the validity of the statements.
use one of the personal identification numbers/personal identification document numbers, as specified in the regulation, as set out in the annex to the regulation.
Organisations may also submit a draft legal act to the Commission. The Commission must inform the other EU countries of any draft legal acts it receives.
Registration of a proposed citizens' initiative
The organisers must register their initiative in the national register of the competent authority of the country in which the initiative is registered. The number of signatories must correspond to the number of Members of the Parliament elected in each EU State, multiplied by 750. The organisers must also provide the competent authorities with a certificate of support for the initiative. The competent authorities must issue the certificate to the organisers within 1 month of receiving the statement of support form.
If the organisers fail to comply with this requirement, they may be subject to a decision of revocation. The decision may be taken by the Commission, which has the power to:
revoke the certificate;
suspend the registration of the initiative;
decide to withdraw the initiative from the register.
In addition, the Commission may decide to suspend the registration if the organisers do not comply with the following conditions:
the organisers have not collected the required number of signatures;
the initiative has not been submitted for a specific period of time;
it has not yet been adopted;
there is no public information campaign.
FROM WHEN DOES IT APPLY?
The regulation has applied since 1 January 2012.
BACKGROUND
The European Commission has adopted a number of implementing acts to improve transparency in the EU, including:
Commission Implementing Decision 2014/852/EU on the publication of the list of EU countries which require the provision of a personal identification number or personal identification document number in their national register;
Commission Regulation (EC) No 852/2010 on the registration and verification of citizens' initiatives.
For more information, see:
‘Citizen's initiatives’ on the Commission's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Personal identification number: a number assigned to each individual by the competent national authority of an EU country to verify the authenticity of a statement.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (Euratom) No 550/2011 of 21 December 2011 on the presentation of proposals to adopt legal acts for the exercise of the right of the Member States to adopt measures similar to those conferred on Article 225 and Article 241 (OJ L 183, 28.12.2011, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EU, Euratom) no 550/2010 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
Commission Decision 2014-852 of 20 December 2014 on the notification of the Commission of the notification to the Member State of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland of its wish to submit a proposal to adopt a law on the application of Articles 225 and 241 of Article 290 of the treaty on the functioning of the Community and repealing Council Decision 1999/468/EC.
Communication from the Commission to the Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee, the Committee of the Regions and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Security Policy (COM(2014) 596 final, 30.11.2014)
Commission Delegated Regulation (ESC) No 1082/2014 of 30 November 2014 on a European



Summary 88:
Pesticides: EU statistics
Pesticide statistics: placing on the market and use
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 1367/2006 — EU statistics on pesticides
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes a common framework for the systematic production of EU-wide statistics on the placing on market and the use of those pesticides which are plant protection products, as defined in Article 2(a)(i) of Directive 2003/4/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 28 January 2003 on public access to environmental information (see summary).
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to:
pesticides placed on the European Union (EU) market;
plant growth regulators;
molluscicides;
herbicides based on derivatives of urea.
It does not apply to pesticides based on dinitroaniline derivatives.
The statistics cover substances listed in Annex III contained in pesticides placed on market in each EU country.
EU countries must compile statistics for each selected crop within a 5-year reference period. The first reference period is the second calendar year following 30 December 2009.
Data collection, transmission and processing
Each EU country must send the European Commission a report on the implementation of the regulation every 5 years. The report must include:
the number of pesticides used and the quantities of substances used;
the total number of substances in each category of pesticide;
a description of the pesticides used in each type of plant growth regulators.
In addition, the Commission must submit a report to the EU Parliament, the Council and the European Economic and Social Committee on the results of the statistical collection and processing carried out under the regulation.
FROM WHEN DOES IT APPLY?
  
It has applied since 31 December 2006.
BACKGROUND
The European Union has adopted a number of measures to reduce the risks associated with pesticide use, including:
rules on the labelling of pesticides;
measures to improve the information available to the public on the use and risks of pesticides.
For more information, see:
European Union statistics on pesticide use (European Commission).
* KEY TERMS
* Pesticide: a pesticide used to protect plants against pests.
* Plant growth regulator: an EU country’s plant growth regulator, which is responsible for monitoring the plant growth of a given crop and monitoring the effects of pesticides on the plant.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1307/2006 of 30 November 2006 establishing a Community statistical system for the placing of pesticides and their use on plant growth (OJ L 183, 31.12.2006, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (Euratom) no 1307 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
 
Regulations (EU, EFTA) No 552/2013 of the Court of Auditors of the Union of 11 December 2013 on the application of the provisions of the Aarhus Convention on Access to Information, Public Participation in Decision-making and Access to Justice in Environmental Matters to Community institutions and bodies and repealing Council Regulation No 1365/2006 on the access to information, public participation in decision-making, access to justice in environmental matters to Community bodies and bodies, and repealing Regulation No 1282/2006 (OCT) No 1283/2006) (See consolidated version).
Commission Implementing Decision 2014/852/EU of 27 June 2014 on the harmonisation of the rules on the information to be provided by the Commission on the collection and transmission of EU statistics concerning the placing and use of pesticides, and amending Council Regulation (EU), Euratom and European Parliament Regulations (EURO) No 1082/2013 and (EU).
Directive 2003/3/EC on the EU statistics system for placing pesticides and on their use and repealing Directives 2003/5/EC and 2003/8/EC (O J L 256, 27.10.2003, p. 86)
See summary.
last update 04.01.2016



Summary 89:
Plant protection products — EU rules on active substances and their biosafety and bioaccumulation (POPs)
Plant Protection Products — European rules on Active Substances
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 552/2008 on the placing on the market of plant protection products containing active substances
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out rules on the approval, labelling and labelling of substances used as active substances for the protection of plants. These substances are referred to as ‘plant protection products’.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to:
active substances* intended for use as plant protection*;
safeners* and synergists*** for plant protection;
adjuvants* for the use of these substances.
It does not apply to substances that are not used as plants.
The European Commission must assess whether an active substance, safener or synergist fulfils the following criteria:
the presence of a biocentration factor greater than 0.5 mg/kg;
the absence of toxicity;
evidence that the substance has been present in the environment for more than 5 years.
If a substance fulfils all three of the criteria, it is a POP. The Commission may review the approval of a basic substance at any time.
EU countries must ensure that:
a product has been approved for use on their territory for at least 5 years;
an active substance has not been used as a plant protection product;
it has been used in more than one EU country;
a combination of a POP and a synergist has been tested and approved.
An active substance or a combination of active substances is considered to be a POP if it meets all 3 of the above criteria.
A product may not be placed on the EU market if it:
has not been tested or tested in a country other than that in which it is authorised;
has been used only for a limited period of time;
does not comply with the requirements of the European Union (EU) law on the labelling, packaging and product information;
is likely to endanger human health or the environment;
contains a substance that is likely to present a risk to human health and the environment.
Approval procedure
The competent authority of an EU country must first establish whether the approval criteria set out in points 3.2 to 3.7 of Annex II are satisfied. The competent authority must then assess whether the product meets the other 3 criteria. If it does not, the product must be withdrawn from the market or withdrawn from use.
In addition, the competent authority may authorise a product to be used only where it meets the following conditions:
it meets the safety criteria;
there is no risk to the environment or to the health or safety of human health;
its use is not likely to harm the environment, the environment and the health of animals or plants; and
it does not pose a threat to the public.
Where a product does not fulfil all 3 criteria, the European Commission may decide to withdraw its authorisation.
Advertising
The product must bear the following information on its packaging and packaging:
its composition and composition of the active substance;
how it is used in the plant protection process;
where the product is used as an adjuvant, the presence or absence of the substance in the water.
Labelling
The products must be clearly labelled and clearly distinguishable from other products on sale in the EU. The product must also bear the information ‘This product is not for human consumption’, ‘It is not intended for human use’ and ‘it is not suitable for use in any other EU country. This information must be accompanied by a description of the product’s purpose and the risks it presents to the general public. It must also contain the product information and information on the safety of the products.
Manufacturers must also ensure that the information they provide to the competent authorities and the public is clearly legible.
Products must be labelled in a language easily understood by the end-users and that they are clearly identifiable as such. They must also indicate that they have been tested, tested and certified in accordance with the relevant EU legislation.
National authorities must monitor the safety and effectiveness of the approved products and ensure that they comply with all the requirements laid down in the regulation.
They must also monitor the use and use of adjuvants and other substances that have not been approved, as well as the monitoring and control requirements for the products that have been approved. The European Commission is responsible for monitoring and controls. It may adopt harmonised methods to ensure that these methods are effective, proportionate and dissuasive.
Authorisations
The Commission must issue a decision on the granting of an authorisation to a product. The authorisation is valid for a period not exceeding 15 years. This decision may be reviewed at any



Summary 90:
Administrative cooperation in the field of information exchange in the EU: Information Management Instrument (IMI)
Administrative Cooperation in the Field of Information Exchange in the European Union (IME)
SUMMARY OF:
Implementing Regulation (EU) No 565/2013 on the establishment of the information management instrument (IMI)
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes the administrative cooperation tool for the exchange of information between EU countries’ competent authorities and the European Commission.
It aims to facilitate administrative cooperation between the competent authorities of the EU countries and between the Commission and other EU countries.
KEY POINTS
The regulation sets out the rules on data security and the rights of data subjects. It also lays down the responsibilities of the European Data Protection Supervisor (EDP) and the national supervisory authorities of EU countries to ensure the protection of personal data.
The European Commission is responsible for administering IMI. It is assisted by a committee of coordinators.
Implementation of the regulation is governed by a series of implementing acts. These include:
An implementing act to determine which provisions of EU acts are subject to a pilot project and to set out the basic technical functionality and procedural arrangements required to implement the relevant administrative cooperation provisions;
An Implementing Act to determine the modalities for each pilot project.
A Commission Implementing Decision to set up the European Monitoring Centre for the Exchange of Information (EMC).
The Commission adopts a report every 3 years on the results of the pilot projects.
In addition, every 5 years, the Commission reports to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions on the implementation of the IMI Regulation.
FROM WHEN DOES THE REGULE APPLYEARS OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
   
It entered into force on 5 December 2013. EU countries had to incorporate it into national law by 5 December 2017.
BACKGROUND
 
  *   * * 
For more information, see:
‘Information Management Instrument’ on the Commission’s website.
* KEY TERMS
* Information management instrument: an electronic tool provided by the Commission to facilitate information exchange between national authorities and between competent authorities.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EC) No 550/2013 of 5 November 2013 establishing the Information Management Institution (Implementation Regulation) (OJ L 157, 5.12.2013, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EEC) no 550/13 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
 *  Â  			
Council Decision 2013/852/EC of 27 June 2013 on the European Electronic Network for the Interoperability of the Information System (Interoperable Information System) (IMSI) and repealing Council Regulation No 566/2006 (OCT) No 652/2006) (COM(2013) 596 final, 30.6.2013)
Commission Implementing Directive 2013/13/EU of 27 May 2013 establishing a European Union Information System for the Coordination of the Exchange and Management of Information between the Member States and the Commission (Euratom) (Official Journal C 43, 14.5.2013).
See consolidated version.
last update 04.02.2016



Summary 91:
Fishing and aquaculture in the Mediterranean and Black Sea: common dolphinfish (GFCM Agreement)
Fishery and aquatic activities in the European Union (EU)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 652/2011 on the implementation of the GFCM agreement
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out the rules for the management of fishing, hunting and fishing activities of European Union fishing vessels and nationals of EU countries in the Black Sea and the Mediterranean.
It aims to ensure the sustainable and rational management of living marine resources in these waters.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to:
all commercial fishing and aquaulture activities conducted by EU fishing vessels, nationals of the EU and nationals from non-EU countries, in the waters covered by the agreement;
all fishing and transshipment activities conducted in the area of the agreement.
EU countries must:
report to the European Commission by 15 January of each year the number of vessels involved in the fishery, as well as the total landings and transhipments of common and pelagic fish carried out in the previous year by the fishing vessels flying their flag in each Geographical Sub-Area of the Agreement area as set out in Annex I.
Vessels flying the flag of an EU country must provide the Commission with:
the vessel’s EU Fleet Register number and its external marking;
the period during which fishing and/or transhipment is authorised and
the fishing gears used.
The Commission may adopt implementing acts as regards detailed rules on the format and transmission of the report on such fishing activities.
Reporting of statistical matrices
Each year, EU countries must send the Commission a report on the number and number of fishing vessels involved and the total number of landings or transshipments carried out. The Commission must transmit the report to the Executive Secretary of the General Council of the Mediterranean Fisheries Commission.
Fishing gear
The minimum mesh size for nets used for trawling activities exploiting demersal stocks in the Baltic Sea must be 40 millimetres (mm).
The maximum mesh size of pelagic trawls used for the exploitation of the pelagic fishery must be no more than 24 metres in length.
In the Mediterranean mixed fisheries, the selectivity of some fishing gears cannot be permitted to go beyond a certain level.
Monitoring of fishing activities
EU fishing vessels must submit their fishing logbook and reports to port inspectors, including those transmitted by a vessel monitoring system (VMS), as appropriate.
Port inspectors must examine the fishing logbooks and reports submitted, including the data transmitted by the VMS, as appropriate, and check that the vessel is complying with the rules.
If a vessel is found to be in breach of the rules, it must be subject to a penalty of up to 10 days’ imprisonment.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
 
It has applied since 19 January 2012.
BACKGROUND
   
The European Commission has adopted implementing acts implementing Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 752/2010 on the GGCM Agreement. The regulation establishes a common framework for multilateral cooperation to promote the development, conservation, rational management and best utilisation of marine resources.
For more information, see:
The EU fishing fleet (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Common and Pelagic Fishery: a fishery in which an individual or group of individuals or groups of individuals and groups of persons are involved in fishing and hunting for common or pelagic fishes.
* Pelagic trawl: a type of trawl used to capture and transport fish in a pelagic sea.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (Euratom), Euratom of 13 December 2011 on the implementing act of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 January 2012 on the interpretation and application of the regulation relating to the application of Article 15(2) of the Treaty on European Union on the Functioning of the Common Fisheries Policy (OJ L 136, 19.1.2012, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EU, Euram) No 768/2011 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
  Еォォォァァァ  ォォ ォァ ォ 
Commission Implementing Act (EU), Euram, Eurom, Euronews, Euratam, Euratom, EEA, EEC, EAE, Euratic Fisheries, EMEA, Euro-Mediterranean Fisheries and EEA Fisheries, and Euratom Fisheries, of 11 December 2011 laying down implementing acts for the interpretation, application, transmission and reporting of the implementing acts relating to Article 15 of the Convention on the Conservation and Management of Marine Living Resources (Codified version).
Council Decision



Summary 92:
Uniform patent protection within the internal market: European patent with unitary effect (EU-level regulation) (European Patent Office Regulation)
United Kingdom (UK) (United Kingdom) (UPC Regulation) (OJ L 76, 22.3.2014, pp. 53-58)
Uniform European patent protection: European Patent with unitARY effect (UCPR)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 552/2013 on the creation of unitary patent protection in the European Union
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to ensure that patents granted by the European Patent Office (EPO) have the same level of protection throughout the EU.
It sets out the conditions under which a patent can be licensed in the EU countries.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to:
patents granted in accordance with Article 145 of the Treaty on European Union (TFEU) (see summary);
powers conferred on the patent proprietor by the EPO;
the right to prevent any third party from committing acts against which the patent provides protection.
EU countries must:
ensure that the patent is licensed in respect of the whole or part of the territories of the participating EU countries;
apply the same licensing conditions as those applicable to patents granted in other EU countries, including:
a single annual renewal fee for a European patent;
a ban on the use of patents for non-commercial purposes.
The European Commission must regularly submit to the European Parliament and the Council reports on the functioning of the regulation, with particular emphasis on compliance with the renewal fees.
In addition, the Commission must evaluate the operation of the licensing system and make appropriate proposals to improve the licensing of patents.
A European patent granted by a patent-possessor may be granted in more than one EU country at the same time. It must be licensed for a period of 10 years.
If a patent is granted in one country, it is licensed for 10 years in another EU country.
Licensing of a patent
A patent can only be licensed if it is:
uniform in nature;
obliged by the patent to be applied for in the territory of the EU country in which it was granted; or
unlimited in scope.
Where a patent has been granted in a non-EU country, the licensing conditions are:
the patent must be granted to a person or a group of persons who have the right to use the patent in that country;
it must not be infringed by a third party.
An EU country may refuse to grant a license if the patent infringes one of the following conditions:
it does not infringe the rights conferred on it by the EPC;
there is no infringement of the patent’s validity;
an infringement is likely to have a significant impact on the economic, social or cultural life of the person or group of people whose patent is infringed.
FROM WHEN DOES THE LEGULATION APPLY?
From 1 January 2014.
BACKGROUND
The EU has adopted a number of measures in the area of patent protection. These include:
Decision 2011/167/EU authorising enhanced cooperation between Belgium, Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Germany, Estonia, Ireland, Greece, France, Cyprus, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Hungary, Malta, the Netherlands, Austria, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovenia, Slovakia, Finland, Sweden and the United Kingdom in the field of patent-related cooperation;
Decisions 2011/166/EU and 2011/168/EU establishing a European Patent Pool.
For more information, see:
European Patent Pool (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Unitary patent: a patent which has the same legal effect in all EU countries as a patent granted in any other EU country, except for Denmark.
* Patent pool: a pool of patents which are granted in different EU countries and which are collectively known as the ‘EU-wide patent pool’.
ACT
Council Regulation (EEC) No 529/2013 of 21 December 2013 on the establishment of a European Product Patent with Unitary Effect in the Community and repealing Regulation (EC) no 553/2009 of the EC.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Commission Implementing Decision 2014/852/EU
1.1.2014
-
OJ C 202, 1.1-2.2015
RELATED ACTS
Council Decision 2011/169/EU of 10 March 2011 authorising the establishment, on behalf of the European Community, of a Joint Patent Pool for the protection of certain products and technologies in the fields covered by Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 661/2009 on the application of Article 145(1) of the TFEU.
Commission Regulation (EEU



Summary 93:
European Observatory on Infringements of Intellectual Property Rights (OIPR)
European Observatory of Infringement of Intellectual Product Rights (OPIOL)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 552/2010 on the establishment of the European Observatory on Counterfeiting and Piracy
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes a European Observatory to combat infringements of intellectual property rights (IPR).
KEY POINTS
The OPIOL’s tasks are to:
provide information and data on infringements;
cooperate with other authorities at national, European and, where appropriate, international levels;
create synergies with the activities carried out by such authorities and avoid any duplication of measures.
It also provides services to national authorities or operators which affect, in particular, the homogenous implementation of the Directive 2004/48/EC and which are likely to facilitate its application.
The Observatory is a forum for cooperation between representatives from national authorities and stakeholders to exchange ideas and expertise on best practices and make recommendations to policymakers for joint enforcement strategies.
Each EU country must send at least one representative from its public administration to meetings of the Observatory.
Representatives of the private sector are invited to the meetings, as well as representatives from the European Parliament, the Commission, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Council of the EU countries.
In addition, representatives of consumers and small and medium-sized enterprises are also invited to participate in the meetings.
Members of the public administration of EU countries may be invited to any of the meetings covered by this regulation.
FROMENTRY INTO FORCE
  
The European Observatory was established under Regulation (EU) 2016/852/EU. It is hosted and managed by the services of the Commission.
BACKGROUND
In its Resolution of 22 September 2010 on enforcement of intellectual Property rights in the internal market (OJ L 195, 2.6.2010, pp. 1-8), the Council recognised the importance of developing new competitive business models enlarging the legal offer of cultural and creative content and at the same time preventing and combating infringements as necessary means for fostering economic growth, employment and cultural diversity.
For more information, see:
EU Observatory on Intellectual Property (European Commission).
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Commission Implementing Decision 2014/853/EU
6.1.2014
-
OJ C 202, 6.1-6.2015
RELATED ACTS
Council Resolution of 21 September 2010 calling on the European Commission to extend the cooperation between the Office and national intellectual property offices so as to include the fight against infringements.
Council Communication of 21 October 2010 on the enforcement of copyright and trademark infringement.
Last updated: 22.06.2014



Summary 94:
Public procurement — enforcement of the EU’s rights under international trade agreements (GPA) and WTO rules on public procurement (Public Procurement Regulation (EU) No 182/2011)
Public procurement: enforcement of EU rights
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EEC) No 181/2011 on the exercise of the Union's rights in the area of public procurement
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes a procedure for enforcing the EU's rights under the General Agreement on Trade in Arms and Trade in Services (GATT) and other international agreements on the procurement of goods and services.
It aims to ensure that the EU is able to enforce its rights when a trade partner fails to respect its commitments under the GATT or other agreements on government procurement.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to the following sectors:
trade in arms and trade in services:
the origin of a good or a service is determined on the basis of the origin of the natural or legal person providing it.
The European Commission must submit a list of appropriate contracting authorities or entities or categories of contracting authorities and categories of entities that may be involved in the implementation of possible commercial policy measures to be adopted by the EU in this area.
EU countries must ensure that:
goods and services originating in a non-EU country are not supplied by persons who have a direct and effective link with the economy of the country in which they are established;
they are not provided by persons with a direct or indirect links with the EU countries;
the EU countries that are not EU countries are not involved in public procurement;
there are no customs duties or quotas on goods or services originating from EU countries.
Public authorities and entities must apply normal precautions and exercise due diligence when assessing information and guarantees provided by tenderers as regards the origin.
In addition, EU countries must take the necessary measures to ensure the maintenance of a substantially equivalent level of concessions, as laid down in the relevant international agreements, in order to safeguard their economic interests.
Exemptions from the regulation
The Commission may suspend, modify or repeal the regulation if it considers that a contracting authority or entity has not complied with its obligations under the agreement. The suspension, modification or repeal of the regulation must be decided by a committee composed of representatives of EU countries and chaired by the Commission.
Implementing powers
The implementing powers of this regulation are conferred on the Commission, which must:
ensure uniform conditions for its implementation;
review the regulation, including possible measures in the sector of intellectual property rights and additional measures concerning services, no later than 3 years after the first instance of its implementation or 5 years from its date of entry into force, whichever is the earlier.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
The Regulation has applied since 1 July 2011.
BACKGROUND
   Â  
The GATT and the WTO agreements on trade in arms, services and public procurement provide the EU with a legal basis for enforcing its rights under these agreements.
For more information, see:
‘Public procurement’ on the European Commission's website.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Commission Implementing Regulation (EC) 2018/852
1.7.2018
-
OJ L 136 of 1.7-12.2018.
Amending act(s)
Entry in force
deadline to transpose into force: 1.8.2022
Obligations on the interpretation and application of Article XXVIII of the Agreement on Tariffs and Trade 1994
Article 5 of Article 5 with regard to the tariff schedules of WTO Members
Article 6 of the agreement on the withdrawal of substantially equivalent concessions
Article 7 of the annexes to the agreement
Article 8 of Article 6 to Article 7 of Article 7 to Article 8 to Article 9 to Article 10 to Article 11 to Article 12 to Article 13 to Article 14 to Article 15 to Article 16 to Article 21 to Article 19 to Article 20 to Article 22 to Article 25 to Article 26 to Article 27 to Article 28 to Article 29 to Article 30 to Article 31 to Article 32 to Article 33 to Article 34 to Article 35 to Article 36 to Article 37 to Article 39 to Article 38 to Article 40 to Article 5 to Article 1 to Article 6 and to the annex to Article 18 to the same annex to the Agreement.
RELATED ACTS
Council Decision (EU, Euratom) 2017/856 of 28 June 2017 on the implementation by the European Union of Regulation (EEU) 2018 on the enforcement of its rights in relation to the area for the protection of intellectual and cultural property rights under International Trade Agreements (Official Journal L 140 of 28.6.2017).
Council Directive (EU), Euratom of 27 June 2017 establishing a Community Customs Code and repealing Council Decision (Euratom) No 5



Summary 95:
Agreement on the stabilisation of the EU market for bananas (2012-2013)
Agreement establishing a stabilisation mechanism for bananas
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 552/2012 on the application of the Agreement on the stability of the Union market for Bananas
Decision 2012/852/EU on the conclusion, on behalf of the European Union, of the agreement on the stabilization of the market for banana imports
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION AND OF THE AGREEMENT?
The regulation establishes a system for monitoring imports of bananas in the EU.
The agreement aims to ensure that the EU’s banana market is stable and to prevent any serious injury to EU producers of other products.
It sets out rules for the monitoring and monitoring of imports of the products covered by the agreement.
KEY POINTS
Under the agreement, the Commission is responsible for monitoring the import of bananas. It must cooperate and exchange data on a regular basis with EU countries and the EU industry. It may also initiate investigations and proceedings if it considers that an import is likely to cause or threaten to cause serious injury.
If there is sufficient prima facie evidence to justify the initiation of a proceeding, it must publish a notice as provided for in Article 111(3) of the annex to the agreement in the Official Journal.
Where the Commission considers that the importation of a product in question poses a serious threat to the EU producers’ interests, it may decide to take measures to prevent or restrict its importation. These measures may include:
preventing the export of the product from the EU;
imposing provisional or definitive safeguard measures;
suspending the import;
restricting the supply of a particular type of product;
taking measures to protect the interests of producers;
ensuring that the Commission receives all information it considers necessary to make a determination with regard to the conditions set out in Article 2(1), and, where appropriate, endeavour to verify that information.
EU countries may request information and may exchange views in the Committee or directly with the Commission.
Implementing rules
The Commission must adopt implementing rules for:
monitoring measures,
preparatory measures and
pre-surveillance measures.
Prior surveillance measures are to be taken when:
a product is imported into the EU in such increased quantities, in absolute terms or relative to EU production, and under such conditions as to cause, or threaten, serious injury;
a report is prepared by the Commission on the impact of the imports concerned on the situation of the union market.
Safeguard measures may be taken if:
the import of a specific product is causing, or threatens to cause:
serious injury to Union producers of like or directly competitive products as laid down in Article 104;
the product is being imported in such quantities as to have a significant impact on the market;
there is a risk that the product may be used as a substitute for other products which are not subject to safeguard measures. The Commission may, however, take into account the legitimate interest of natural and legal persons concerned that their business secrets should not be divulged.
Provisional and definitive measures may only be applied if the following conditions are met:
an imported product is:
being imported in quantities that are significantly greater than the level of production;
being of such a nature as to pose a serious risk to the economic, social or cultural interests of EU producers; or
being in such a quantity as to be likely to have an adverse effect on the economic interests of the producers.
In the event that the facts as finally established show that the conditions are not met, the case must be referred to the Association Committee for examination in accordance with Article 116 of the Agreements.
Stabilisation mechanism
The Agreement sets up a system of administrative co-operation between the Commission and EU countries to ensure the proper functioning of the system. It also establishes a non-confidential file, which it must manage and through which all information which is relevant and is not confidential within the meaning of Article 12 of the regulation is disseminated.
This system is to be used only for the purpose for which it was requested.
As soon as the necessary technical framework is in place, it shall ensure password-protected online access to the non-Confidential file.
FROM WHEN DOES THE REGUMENT APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 January 2013.
BACKGROUND
The European Commission has adopted a number of implementing acts implementing the agreement since its entry into force. These include Regulation (EEC) No 2913/92.
For more information, see:
Bananas (European Commission).
* KEY TERMS
* Preparatory safeguard measures: measures taken to prevent, restrict or restrict imports of certain products from non-EU countries.
* Seizure measures: a measure taken when a product is suspected of



Summary 96:
Creditors’ right to a ‘preservation order’ against a debtor’s account or accounts — cross-border cooperation in civil matters in the event of a bankruptcy or winding-up of an insolvent company or other legal entity
Crediting parties’ rights in respect of the preservation of funds in an account or account must be respected in cases where the debtor has not yet obtained a judgment, court settlement or authentic instrument.
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 552/2013 on the preservation order
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes a procedure for the enforcement of a court-issued ‘Preservation Order’ in the case of a debtor who has been declared bankrupt or whose bank account is in another EU country.
It aims to improve judicial cooperation between EU countries in cases of disputes between creditor and debtor.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to:
rights in property arising out of a matrimonial relationship or a relationship deemed by the law applicable to such relationship to have comparable effects to marriage;
wills and succession, including maintenance obligations arising by reason of death;
claims against debtor in relation to whom bankruptcy proceedings, proceedings for the winding up of insolvent companies, judicial arrangements, compositions, or analogous proceedings have been opened;
social security;
arbitration.
A creditor may not submit to several courts at the same time parallel applications for a preservation order against the same debtor aimed at securing the same claim.
The creditor must provide security for an amount sufficient to prevent abuse of the procedure provided for by the creditor and to ensure compensation for any damage suffered by the debtor as a result of the order to the extent that the creditor is liable for such damage pursuant to Article 13 of the regulation. The creditor must also provide proof that the debtor is not liable for the damage caused by the order.
Where the creditor has already obtained a court settlement, authentic instrument or judgment, it must provide the court with a security for a sum sufficient to ensure that the order is enforced. The court may also require the creditor to provide proof for the release of the funds preserved.
In the case where the creditor does not have the necessary security to enforce the order, the court must issue a declaration indicating whether and to what extent funds in the debtor's account and accounts have been preserved and, if so, on which date the order was implemented.
Implementation of the Preservation Order
The bank or other entity responsible for enforcing the Order in the EU country of enforcement must issue the declaration using the declaration form established by means of implementing acts adopted in accordance with the advisory procedure referred to in Article 52(2), indicating whether the debtor had any funds in his/her account or its accounts.
Procedure for the remedies
The Court of Justice of the European Union may issue a judgment or an authentic instrument in a case where:
the creditor has not obtained the judgment or the authentic instrument;
the bank account concerned is located in one EU country; or
the debtor has a bank account in another.
If the court considers that the court has jurisdiction over the case, it may issue an order in the same EU country as an equivalent national order in that country. The Court may also decide to issue a court order in an EU country where the court dealing with the application for the order has its headquarters.
When a court issues an order for the execution of a Preservation Order, it is bound by the same rules as those applicable to a national order. It must be lodged with the court which the debtor communicates to the Commission pursuant to point (d) of Article 50(1).
The Commission may adopt implementing acts establishing and subsequently amending the forms to establish and subsequently amend the forms of the declaration.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULATIONS APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 January 2014.
BACKGROUND
The European Commission has adopted a number of measures relating to judicial cooperation in the area of civil matters. These include:
Delegated Regulation (Euratom) No 696/2012 on the protection of personal data, the right to property and the right of access to a fair trial;
Regulations (EC) No 852/2012 and (EC, EC) No 952/2014 on the enforcement and preservation of bank accounts, and Regulation (EU, EC, EC and EFTA) No 1082/2013 laying down the procedures for the implementation of the Order.
For more information, see:
‘Cross-border judicial cooperation’ on the European Commission's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Creditor: a person who is a creditor to a debtor and who has a claim against the debtor for the same amount of money.
Bank account: any bank account that is held by a debtor in a country other than the one in which it is located.
MAIN DOCUMENT
 
 



Summary 97:
Border surveillance at sea: preventing illegal border crossings and combating cross-border crime (Regulation (EU) No 515/2014)
Border surveillance on sea
SUMMARY OF:
Delegated Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2015/852 — border surveillance at the sea
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes rules for border surveillance operations at sea.
It aims to prevent unauthorised border crossings, to counter crossborder criminality and to apprehend or take other measures against those persons who have crossed the border in an irregular manner.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to all EU countries and the European Border and Coast Guard Agency (Euratom).
It covers:
border surveillance in the territorial sea;
interception in the contiguous zone;
detection and reporting of vessels suspected of being engaged in illegal activities at sea, which are outside the scope of the sea operation;
assistance to persons found in distress.
Participating units
Each participating unit must:
have at least one person with basic first aid training;
ensure the protection of human dignity;
respect the fundamental rights and the principle of non-refoulement;
participate fully in the performance of their duties, fully respecting human dignity.
The participating units:
collect and immediately report information about any vessel suspected of engaging in illegal activity at sea to the International Coordination Centre, which transmits that information to the national coordination centre of the EU country concerned;
report information about the situation of persons on board, in particular whether there is an imminent risk to their lives or whether there are persons in urgent need of medical assistance;
have the contact details of those competent national authorities, which must take appropriate follow-up measures.
Interception
A border surveillance operation may take place in a country’s territorial sea or in a contiguous zone. The participating units are responsible for:
detecting a vessel flying a foreign flag or refusing to show its flag;
checking that the vessel is, in reality, of the same nationality as a participating unit;
verifying that the flag is not being flown by a non-EU country.
If a vessel is transiting the contiguous sea, the participating unit is responsible for the interception and must inform the host country of the country in whose territory the interception takes place. The host country must then instruct the participating units accordingly through the international coordination centre.
In the event of a vessel not complying with the rules of the regulation, it must be intercepted by the competent national authority of the participating EU country. If a vessel does not comply with these rules, it is subject to a search and seizure operation.
When an EU country detects a vessel in distress, it informs the other EU countries of the situation and informs them of the location of the vessel and of the number of people on board.
A participating unit:
ensures that the person on board is not a threat to the safety of the persons on the vessel;
provides assistance to persons who are in distress;
is accompanied by a qualified first responder;
has the necessary equipment and training to respond to persons in distress and to provide medical assistance.
An operational plan is drawn up for each participating unit. The operational plan must contain contact details for the relevant national authorities.
Where a vessel transits the contiguous maritime zone, the competent EU country must inform it of the details of the competent authorities of the other participating units.
Coastal EU country:
is responsible for initiating an interception;
cooperates with the participating border surveillance units of other participating EU countries.
FROM WHEN DOES THE LEGULATION APPLY?
The European Parliament and the Council adopted the regulation on 18 July 2015.
BACKGROUND
The EU has adopted a number of implementing acts on border surveillance. These include:
Directive 2011/36/EU on the prevention and control of trafficking in human beings (see summary);
Council Decision 2010/252/EU establishing, as part of the Internal Security Fund, the instrument for financial support for external borders and visa and repealing Decision No 574/2007/EC (OJ L 150, 20.5.2014, pp. 143-148).
The Euratom Agency has been responsible for implementing the regulation.
For more information, see:
EU border surveillance (European External Borders Agency).
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Delegation (EU), Euratom of 18 June 2015 on the implementation of Regulation (EC) No 550/2014 of 18 July 2014 establishing rules for the surveillance of the external borders of the Member States and the Agency for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms of the European Union at sea and repealing Council Decision No 652/2010/EU.
Successive amendments to Council Delegated Regulations (EU and Euratom), as amended by Council Decision 2014/856/EU, have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is



Summary 98:
EU actions and emergency assistance in or in relation to third countries
EU actions, emergency and technological assistance in and relation to non-EU countries
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 — financial rules for EU actions, EMERGENCY and technical assistance
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out detailed rules for the implementation of the EU’s specific rules for actions and assistance to third-country countries in the field of migration and asylum.
It aims to support EU countries’ efforts to cope with the increasing pressure on the external borders of the European Union (EU).
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to all EU actions and measures to help third countries to deal with the influx of migrants and asylum seekers.
EU countries must designate a designated national authority responsible for the management and control of expenditure under the regulation. This authority is responsible for:
monitoring, monitoring, reporting and evaluating the effectiveness of the support provided;
assigning revenue to the designated authority;
contributing to the EU budget.
National programmes
Each year, EU countries must submit a proposal for a national programme to the European Commission. The Commission adopts the national programme and adopts implementing acts in accordance with the implementing acts adopted by the European Parliament and the Council.
Actions supported under the national programmes must be co-financed by public or private sources, must be of a non-profit nature and must not be subject to funding from other sources covered by the Union budget. They may be of the following types:
non-profit-based;
co-financing;
research and development;
public procurement;
exchange of information;
transnational cooperation.
The national programme must be approved by the competent authorities.
Implementation
The Commission and the EU countries ensure that national programmes are implemented according to the rules laid down in the regulation, including through monitoring and reporting and evaluation.
Responsible authorities are responsible for managing and controlling expenditure. They must:
ensure that expenditure is managed and controlled in line with the objectives of the regulation;
identify, monitor and correct any irregularities and recover amounts unduly paid together with any interest on late payments.
In addition, they must ensure that:
the budget of each EU country is clear and transparent;
the national programme is implemented correctly;
there is no conflict of interest between the budget of the country and the European budget;
all expenditure is covered by EU funds.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
 
   
The Regulation entered into force on 1 February 2015.
BACKGROUND
  * KEY TERMS
* External borders: the area of the external border of the Union in which the EU has its external borders.
* Third-country country: a country which is not a member of the Schengen area and which has not applied for admission to the Union.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EC) No 659/1999 of 22 March 1999 laying down detailed rules on the application of Article 108 of the Treaty establishing the European Community (OJ L 83, 27.3.1999, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EU) No 608/1999 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
  (1) Implementing act (EU-Euratom) 2018/852 of the Council of 11 December 2018 on the European Asylum, Migration and Integration and Internal Security Funds Committee (see summary)
Commission Implementing Decision 2014/856/EU of 27 November 2014 on the establishment of a European Asylum and Integration Fund (see consolidated version)
Council Implementing Act (EU)-EURATOM of 26 November 2014 establishing a European External Borders Fund (See summary).
See consolidated version.
last update 04.02.2019



Summary 99:
European Asylum and Migration Fund
European asylum and migration Fund
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 514/2014 establishing the European Asylum and Migrations Fund
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
   
It sets up a European asylum and Migrant Fund (EAMF).
It aims to provide financial support to EU countries in the field of immigration and asylum.
KEY POINTS
The EAMF is the EU’s main source of financial support for migration and asylum policy. It is funded by the EU budget.
It is designed to:
support voluntary burden-sharing operations agreed between EU countries and consisting of the transfer of beneficiaries of international protection and of applicants for international protection, from one EU country to another;
support actions focusing on the persons referred to in Article 11 of this regulation;
contribute to the return of those who have been refused entry to the EU or who have not been returned to their countries of origin;
provide support for the implementation of the common EU resettlement priorities.
The European Asylum Support Office (EASO) is responsible for the coordination of the EAF and its implementation.
In addition, the EASO:
is responsible for:
contributing to the development of the European asylum system;
cooperating with Member States to implement the common European Union resettlement priorities;
facilitating the exchange of information and assistance between Member States;
assisting Member States in their national programmes;
ensuring that Member States are able to share information on the number of people who have entered the EU;
reintegration and reintegration of unaccompanied minors in their countries;
coordinating the return measures of persons who have left their country of origin.
Funding
The Fund is funded through the European Union budget. It has a global budget of €2.5 billion.
An additional amount may be allocated to Member States, provided that it is earmarked as such in the programme and that the specific actions listed in Annex II are used to implement specific actions.
A decision to grant the Fund a grant is binding on the European Commission. The Commission has the power to revoke the grant.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULATIONS APPLY?
It has applied since 1 July 2014.
BACKGROUND
The purpose of the regulation is to establish the EAMEF.
For more information, see:
‘European Asylum Fund’ (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Refugee: a person who has been denied entry into the EU and who is a danger to his or her life or to the safety of others.
* Migrant: someone who has not been granted international protection or who is in danger of being denied entry.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Implementing Decision 2014/521/EU
1.7.2014
-
OJ L 127 of 1.7-1.8.2014.
RELATED ACTS
 
Regulations (EU, Euratom) No 439/2010 and (EC) No 624/2014 of the Council and of the Parliament of the Union establishing a European Asylum support office (OJ C 299 of 4.10.2010, pp. 108-109)
Regulating (EU), Euratom No 521/2014 and (Euratom) 2016/852 of the EU, Eurathea and Euratom establishing a Commission Directorate-General for Migration, Refugees and Integration (COM(2014) 626 final of 31.12.2014).
Commission Delegated Regulation (EURAThea) No 852/2014/EEC of 31 March 2014 establishing a Commissioner for Migration and Integration.
Commission Decision (EU/EU) 2015/853 of 31 May 2015 establishing a Director-General responsible for Migration.
Council Regulation (EU-EU) 2017/854 of 31 December 2017 establishing a Directorate-general responsible for Migratory Affairs.
Last updated: 22.05.2018



Summary 100:
Funding for the fight against transnational crime: EU action to protect people and goods from transnational threats (2014-2020)
Funding to the European Union (EU) fight against cross-border crime
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 662/2014 establishing a multiannual financial instrument for combating transnational organised crime
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets up the European Fund for Combating Transnational Organised Crime (ETFIC).
It aims to support EU countries’ efforts to combat the transnational threat posed by terrorism, organised crime, drug trafficking, corruption, cybercrime, trafficking in human beings and arms, inter alia, to protect the internal security of the EU.
It establishes the European Instrument for Democracy and Human Rights (EIFH).
KEY POINTS
Scope
The instrument covers:
the objectives, eligible actions and strategic priorities for financial support to be provided under the instrument;
the general framework for the implementation of the eligible actions; and
the resources made available under the Instrument from 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2020 and their distribution.
Eligible actions
The EU countries must:
ensure that their national programmes are consistent with the EU’s priorities and objectives;
support the work carried out by their competent authorities;
cooperate with each other in order to achieve the objectives of the instrument.
The European Commission is responsible for managing the instrument and for its implementation.
the European Parliament and the Council are responsible for authorising the allocation of funds.
Annual appropriations
EU countries must make use of all possible methods of implementation, including, where appropriate, by indirect management, to ensure the timely and efficient delivery of the activities and projects.
Specific objectives
The objective of the Instrument is to:
promote the protection of the lives of vulnerable persons, in particular children and unaccompanied minors;
protect the economic interests of EU countries;
combat transnational criminal activities, such as terrorism and organised crime;
fight against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction.
Strategic priorities
The objectives and priorities are set out in the instrument's strategic priorities. These include:
protecting the lives and property of the most vulnerable people;
promoting the security and stability of the Union;
defending the rights and fundamental freedoms of EU citizens;
ensuring that EU countries take the necessary measures to prevent, combat and combat transnational crimes.
Resources for eligible actions
Resources must be allocated to the EU countries as follows:
30 % in proportion to the size of their total population;
10 % of their territory;
15 % of passengers and 10 % of cargo processed through their international air and sea ports;
35 % in inverse proportion to their gross domestic product (purchasing power standard per inhabitant).
Emergency assistance must be implemented in accordance with Articles 6 and 7 of the Emergency Assistance Directive (EAD).
The Commission may adopt delegated acts to authorise the European Parliament or the Council to provide financial support for actions that are suspended due to legal proceedings or appeals having suspensive effect.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
The regulation entered into force on 21 May 2014.
BACKGROUND
The EIFH was established for a period of 7 years. It was originally intended to be renewed for a further 7 years from 21 May 2015. However, the European Commission decided to extend its period of operation until 31 December 2018.
For more information, see:
Fundamental principles of the European Investment Bank (European Commission).
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Commission Implementing Regulation (EC) No 514/2014
1.1.2014
-
OJ L 299 of 15.5.2014.
RELATED ACTS
Council Decision 2014/852/EU of 21 March 2014 on the establishment of a European Fund of Combating Terrorism and Trafficking in Persons and Goods (OJ C 299, 31.4.2014, pp. 1-2)
Council Regulation (EU), Euratom, Euratatom, of 22 June 2014 establishing a European Instrument of Democracy and Fundamental Rights for combating terrorism and trafficking in persons and goods and repealing Council Regulation (Euratom) 966/2012 of the Parliament and of the Council [Official Journal L 299, 30.6.2014].
Council Directive 2014/965/EEC of 22 May 2014 establishing an Instrument contributing to Stability and Peace for combating international organised crime and combating trafficking in goods and services.
See consolidated version.
Last updated: 27.07.2014



Summary 101:
Non-sustainable fishing: measures to combat non-EU countries’ non-compliance with the EU fisheries management rules
Non-EU fishing : measures to tackle non-Sustainable fishing
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 552/2012 on the prevention, control and enforcement of non-sustainability of fishing activities involving a fishery involving a stock of common interest to that country and to the EU
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out specific measures to be taken against countries that allow, without due regard to existing fishing patterns or the rights, duties and interests of other countries and the EU, fisheries activities that jeopardise the sustainability of that stock, and fails to cooperate with other countries or the EU in its management.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to countries that:
fisheries are not continuously maintained at or above the levels that can produce maximum sustainable yield or, if these levels cannot be estimated, when the stocks are not being maintained within safe biological limits;
are not cooperating in the management of the fishery;
do not cooperate with the European Regional Fisheries Management Organisation (RFMOs) or, where RFMOs have no competence for the stock in question, by means of ad hoc arrangements among the countries having an interest in that fishery.
The European Commission may adopt specific measures in order to encourage countries to contribute to the conservation of the stock. These measures are based on objective criteria and are equitable, cost-effective and compatible with international law, in particular with the Agreement establishing the World Trade Organisation (WTO).
The Commission must adopt implementing acts to ensure that the measures adopted under this regulation are effective and proportionate. These implementing acts must be adopted in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 8 of the regulation.
If measures adopted against a country under the regulation are ineffective and that country continues to be considered to be a country allowing sustainable fishing, further measures may be adopted. The Commission must inform the European Parliament and the Council of the measures taken and the reasons for these measures.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMESSAGE APPLYEAR OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
   
It entered into force on 3 October 2012.
BACKGROUND
The EU’s fisheries policy is based on the principle of sustainable fishing. It aims to ensure the long-term sustainable management of fish stocks.
For more information, see:
‘Fisheries’ on the European Commission's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Non-EU country: a country that allows or participates in fishing activities that endanger the long term sustainable fishing of a fish stock.
ACT
Council Regulation (EC) No 550/2012 of 25 September 2012 concerning the prevention and control of fisheries activities involving the common interest of the Member States and of the Union (OJ L 183, 3.10.2012, pp. 1-8)
RELATED ACTS
 
Regulations (EU, Euratom) No 652/2013 and (EU), Euratom No 653/2014 of the European Council of 11 March 2013 on the protection of the common fisheries policy and on the enforcement of the Community fisheries policy, and repealing Council Regulation (EUR) No 182/2011 of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers.
Commission Implementing Decision 2014/852/EU of 27 March 2014 on the implementation of Regulation (EU).
Commission Regulation (ES) No 853/2013 of 27 February 2013 on fisheries policy.
See consolidated version.
Last updated: 28.05.2014



Summary 102:
Bilateral investment agreements between EU countries and non-EU countries (until 9 January 2013)
Bilateral Investment agreements between European Union (EU) countries and third countries
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 552/2012 on the amendment or conclusion of bilateral investment agreements with third countries after 9 January 2012
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It lays down the conditions under which EU countries are empowered to amend or conclude bilateral agreements with non-European Economic Area (EEA) countries.
It aims to ensure consistency with the EU’s investment policy and compatibility with EU law.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to agreements concluded between the EU countries between 1 December 2009 and 9 January 2014. It does not apply to international agreements relating to foreign investment concluded by EU countries before that date.
EU countries are authorised to enter into negotiations with a third country to amend an existing or to conclude a new bilateral investment agreement. These negotiations must include a description of the provisions to be addressed in the negotiations or to be renegotiated, the objectives of the negotiations and any other relevant information.
Authorisation to open formal negotiations is granted on the basis of clearly defined criteria established in the regulation. The Commission may request further information from the EU country concerned.
The Commission may require the country concerned to include or remove from such negotiations and prospective bilateral agreement any clauses where necessary to ensure that the agreement conforms with the Union's investment policy or compatibility with Union law. It may also require the EU law to be amended.
Notification to the Commission
The EU country must notify the Commission of any changes to the status of those agreements. The notification must include relevant documentation and an indication of the terms to be dealt with in negotiations or renegotiated.
If the Commission considers that the information transmitted by the EU state concerned is not sufficient for the purposes of authorising the opening of formal negotiations in accordance with Article 9, it may request additional information. If additional information is needed, the 90-day period runs from the date of receipt of the additional information to the date on which the Commission decides to take a decision.
In the event that the Commission does not grant the authorisation pursuant to paragraph 4, it must inform the EU State concerned and state the reasons therefor.
Amendments to existing agreements
An amendment or a new investment agreement may be amended or concluded only if it:
is compatible with EU rules on foreign investment;
does not conflict with the common commercial policy of the EU;
is in line with the general principles of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union;
contains clauses that are compatible with the European Investment Bank (EIB).
Authorisations may be refused if they do not comply with the conditions laid down in Article 9 of the regulation or if they are incompatible with the rules of the EIB.
Reviews
The European Commission must submit a report to the European Parliament and the Council every 3 years on the number of amendments or new agreements it has granted. The report must include an overview of the authorisations requested and granted under Chapter III as well as a summary of the need for the continued application of that chapter.
FROM WHEN DOES THE REGULE APPLY?
   
 
It has applied since 9 December 2012.
BACKGROUND
  The regulation applies from 1 December 2013.
For more information, see:
Investment agreements (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Bilateral investment agreement: an investment agreement between an EU country and a third party.
* Foreign investment: an international agreement between a country and another country on the terms and conditions of which the EU has exclusive competence to negotiate and conclude.
MAIN DOCUMENT
  Еганска гранда барка (OJ L 283, 9.12.2012, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 550/2012 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 04.02.2016



Summary 103:
Tariff preferences for the least-developed countries (Everything but Arms)
Tariffs preferences for:
the most developed countries (GSP+);
the least-developed countries (EBA)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 552/2012 — tariff preferences for developing countries
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes a tariff preferences scheme designed to help developing countries have greater development, trade and financial needs.
It sets out the rules for the tariff preferences to be granted under the scheme.
KEY POINTS
The regulation provides for the following tariff preferences:
a general arrangement;
a special incentive arrangement for sustainable development and good governance;
an EBA special arrangement.
The tariff preferences are based on the Combined Nomenclature (CNC) codes. The CNC codes are used to identify products originating in developing countries. The European Commission monitors the imports of products falling under these codes in close cooperation with Member States.
Beneficiaries of these tariff preferences must:
be developing countries;
have a high level of economic and social development;
be in a position to participate in the EU’s common commercial policy.
In addition, the European Commission may adopt delegated acts to adopt tariff preferences under the EBA scheme. These may include:
suspension of the common customs duties on all products originating from an EBA beneficiary country;
the suspension of the Common Customs Tariff duties on certain goods originating in a beneficiary country, except those in Chapter 93; and
the extension of the period of temporary withdrawal of the customs duty on certain products.
Member States are responsible for monitoring the implementation of this regulation.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
It entered into force on 1 January 2014.
BACKGROUND
The European Commission adopted the regulation on behalf of the European Union (EU).
For more information, see:
Tariff Preferences for Developing Countries (European Commission).
* KEY TERMS
Combined Nomenchature: a set of codes used to classify goods originating from developing countries in order to identify them.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EEC) No 550/2012 of 20 November 2012 establishing a tariff preference scheme for the most developed and least developed countries known as the ‘Everything But Arms’ (OJ L 127, 20.11.2012, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EC) no 550/12 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
Communication from the Commission to the European Parliament, the Council and the European Economic and Social Committee: ‘Implementing act on a tariff-preference scheme for development and sustainable development’ — Title V — Trade-related tariff preferences (COM(2014) 609 final, 1.1.2014)
Communications from the European External Action Service to the United Kingdom, the United States of America, Canada, Japan, Australia, New Zealand, Norway, South Korea, Switzerland, Taiwan, Turkey, Australia and the United Nations Economic Commission for Africa, the Pacific, the Middle East and the Pacific — Title VI — Tariff preferences under a general arrangement for the less developed and less developed countries — Title VII — General arrangements for the sustainable development, good governance, sustainable economic and financial cooperation, sustainable social and territorial development, and sustainable territorial development — Title VIII — GSP+ (Official Journal C 202, 28.5.2014, p. 1)
Consolidated version of the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU — Part Three — Union external action — Article 21 — Common commercial policy — Section 1 — External action (ex Article 21 TEU)
See consolidated version.
last update 04.02.2016



Summary 104:
EU rules on the export of firearms, their parts and components and ammunition (UN Firearms Protocol)
EU rules for the export and import of firearms and their parts
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 552/2012 on the EU’s export controls on the manufacture, marking, import, export and transit of firearms
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to prevent, combat and eradicate the illicit manufacturing of and trafficking in firearms.
It sets out rules to prevent and combat the illicit trade in firearms and related parts and ammunition.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to:
the manufacture, import and export of arms and ammunition;
the import and transshipment of firearms; and
the export of ammunition and parts and essential components.
EU countries must:
ensure that:
they have a system of export authorisation and control for firearms;
they apply for authorisation for multiple shipments, transit measures and temporary exports for lawful purposes.
They must also ensure that they:
have a system for identifying and deactivating illegal firearms and parts;
have an export control system in place for ammunition and components;
provide the competent authorities with information on the persons involved in the illegal trade;
establish a firearms export control and export control centre.
A Firearms Exports Coordination Group (the ‘Coordination Group’, chaired by a representative of the Commission, is set up. It is responsible for:
coordinating and coordinating the export control procedures and controls;
monitoring the implementation of export control measures;
ensuring that the export controls are in place;
exchanging information on suspected persons and entities involved in suspicious activities.
The Commission must publish a list of those authorities that have been identified as being involved in suspected suspicious activities;
publishing information on those authorities on a yearly basis in the C series of the Official Journal of the European Union.
Exports must be authorised by the competent customs authority of the EU country in which the firearms are to be exported.
If a firearms, its parts or essential components or ammunition are located in one or more EU countries other than the one where the export application is made, that country must indicate on that application that it is located in that country as well as the country where it is intended for export.
When leaving the customs territory of an EU country other than that of their residence, hunters and sport shooters must produce a European Firearms Pass as provided for in Articles 1 and 12 of Directive 91/477/EEC.
In addition, the regulation requires:
all persons who have the right to export firearms must have a valid travel document issued by the customs authority in the EU;
all individuals who have a right to import firearms must be able to carry out their lawful activities in accordance with the customs legislation of that EU country;
any person who has the right of establishment in a non-EU country must carry out his or her lawful activities under the same conditions as nationals of that country.
Each EU country must ensure that it:
has a system to identify and deactivate illegal firearms*;
implements measures to prevent the illicit export of these firearms and components, and to detect and neutralise their illicit trafficking;
has procedures in place to control the movements of firearms in and out of its territory.
Imports must comply with the rules laid down in Regulation (EC) No 450/2008 on the modernisation of the Community Customs Code (Modernised Customs Code) (see summary).
FROM WHEN DOES THE LEGULATION APPLY?
   
It has applied since 3 July 2012.
BACKGROUND
The UN Firearms Protocol entered into force on 3 July 2005.
For more information, see:
‘Unilateral export controls’ on the European Commission's website.
MAIN DOCUMENT
 
  барсканка гранда нарка (OJ L 183, 3.7.2012, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 550/2012 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
  ARTICLE
  The European Commission adopts Implementing Decision 2014/852/EU of 26 June 2014 on the implementation by the European Parliament and of the Council of the United Nations Convention on the Suppression of the Illicit Trade in Firearms, their Parts and Components and Ammunition (UNCTC) (Official Journal C 202, 28.6.2014, pp 1-2)
See consolidated version.
Council Decision (EC, EC, EC) No 652/2008 of 23 April 2008 laying down Community customs code (modernised customs code) (11) (See summary) (Directive 2008/848/EC) (OCT) (SUM



Summary 105:
EU border control: situational awareness and reaction capability
EU border controls: awareness and response capability
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 562/2006 establishing a European Border and Coast Guard Agency
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes a European Union (EU) border control agency.
It aims to improve situational awareness, reaction and situational awareness at the external borders of the EU countries of the Union (‘external borders’) for the purpose of detecting, preventing and combating illegal immigration and cross-border crime and contributing to ensuring the protection and saving the lives of migrants.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to the surveillance of external land and sea borders, including the monitoring, detection, identification, tracking, prevention and interception of unauthorised border crossings.
EU countries may exchange information and cooperate with one or several neighbouring non-EU countries.
National coordination centres are responsible for sharing with each other, directly and in near-real-time, the situational picture of neighbouring external border sections relating to:
incidents and other significant events;
tactical risk analysis reports as contained in the events layer;
a common pre-frontier intelligence picture;
common application of surveillance tools.
The European Union Border Guard Agency (EUROSUR) is responsible for providing the national coordination centres and the national border control authorities of EU countries with surveillance information on the EU’s external borders on a regular, reliable and cost-efficient basis.
a communication network, a European situational picture and a common intelligence picture.
A common surveillance tool is used for the common application of the common surveillance tools and the common operational layer.
All incidents and significant events are shared with the Agency.
Safeguards of personal data
The Agency must:
ensure the protection of persons in need of international protection;
cooperate with other EU countries in the field of border surveillance;
provide the competent national authorities with the information they need to detect, prevent and combat illegal immigration.
In addition, the Agency may request support from the Agency subject to the conditions for initiating joint operations or rapid interventions, as laid down in Regulation (ECBAC) No 2007/2004.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
It entered into force on 20 December 2013.
BACKGROUND
The EU has adopted a number of measures to improve its border control capability, including:
establishing a European border control Agency (e.g. Europol);
introducing a common situational picture for EU countries’ external borders;
developing a common information exchange and cooperation mechanism.
For more information, see:
Border control agency (European Commission).
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (Eurosur) No 652/2013 of 20 November 2013 establishing a Community Border Guard Authority (External Border Control Agency) (OJ L 136, 20.12.2013, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 608/2013 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
Council Decision 2013/852/EU of 22 October 2013 establishing the European Border Guard Administration (Border Guard Agency).
See consolidated version.
Commission Implementing Decision 2014/856/EU establishing a common European border management system (Border Management System) (Border Control Agency). The Border Management System consists of the following components:
A communication network;
European situational pictures;
Communication network. The European situational pictures are sent directly to each other. The communication network is used to exchange information on:
the situation on the external border;
the operational layer; and
the common analysis layer. The Agency coordinates the common use of the surveillance tools in order to supply the national control centres and itself with surveillance and operational information on external borders and on the pre-border area.
Directive 2014/11/EU on border control.
Council Directive 2014/13/EU, adopted in October 2014, establishes a common border management structure for the European Union. The border management structures are based on the Europol border control system. It is based on a common approach to border management. The EU Border Management Structure is designed to ensure that border control is coordinated and coordinated by the Agency and the EU Member States’ competent authorities. It provides the Agency with the infrastructure and tools needed to improve their situational awareness. It also includes a cost benefit evaluation. The Commission adopts a cost-benefit evaluation every 2 years.
This decision establishes a framework for the exchange of information and cooperation between the Agency, the Member States and the European External Action Service (EEAS). The European Border Management Service (EAS) is the body responsible for the coordination and coordination of border control and border control operations between the European Commission, the European Parliament, the Council, the Commission and the other Member States.
FROM WHEN DOES THE REG



Summary 106:
Eurodac system for the identification of criminal suspects (2014-2020)
EuroDac system to identify criminal suspects
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 604/2013 on the operation of the Eurodac fingerprint database
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out rules for the operation and management of the European Union’s (EU's) fingerprint database, EurodAC.
It repeals and repeals Regulations (EC) No 2725/2000 and 2008/615/JHA.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies from 20 July 2015. It applies to all EU countries, except Denmark, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway, Switzerland and the United Kingdom (1). It does not apply to non-EU countries.
EU countries’ designated authorities for law enforcement purposes
The European Agency for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms (EAPF) is responsible for the operational management of EuroDac. It is assisted by the national authorities of the EU countries and the European Police Agency (EPSA).
The EAPF:
is responsible for:
supervision;
security;
coordinating relations between EU countries;
the coordination of relations between the EU country and the provider;
operating the Central System;
provides technical support to the EPPF;
is the competent authority for the EuroDAC system.
National Access Points
Each EU country has a single national access point.
The national access points are responsible for processing and storing the fingerprint data.
Each country must:
have a single National Access Point;
ensure that the data transmitted to the central system are kept for a maximum of 24 hours;
keep a record of the searches carried out and of the results of those searches.
In addition, each EU country must also:
keep records of the access points for the purpose of processing and storage of the data;
send a report to the European Parliament and the Council every 2 years on the activities of the system;
cooperate with the European Commission and the Agency for Fundamental Rights and Freedoms on the implementation of the regulation;
make a report every 3 years on its activities.
FROM WHEN DOES IT APPLY?
From 20 July 2013.
BACKGROUND
   
The Eurodacc system was set up under Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 552/2004. It was originally set up in 2000.
For more information, see:
‘Fingerprint database’ on the Europol website.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (Euratom) 2015/634 of 20 June 2013 laying down the rules and implementing measures relating to the operation, management and control of the eurodac database (recast) (OJ L 393, 20.7.2015, pp. 1-39)
Successive amendments to Regulation (e.g. Annex II) have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
 
  барска грака:
Commission Decision 2008/616/EU of 20 May 2008 on the non-contractual liability of the Member States in connection with the operation in the area of fingerprint data in the field of the fingerprint database (JHA) (Official Journal L 316, 15.12.2008)
See consolidated version.
Commission Implementing Decision 2009/852/EU on the application of Regulation (EU), Euratom and Europol of Decision No 654/2004 on the exchange of information on the interoperability of the national systems for the collection, storage and processing of fingerprint information in the fields of criminal matters (Official JHA, Official Journal L 315, 28.6.2009).
Council Decision (EURO) No 852/2005 on the use of the information exchange system for criminal matters and on the sharing of information in criminal matters between the national system and the national authority responsible for collecting and processing fingerprint data (OfficialJHA, OJ L 316 of 15.6.).
See combined version of the decision.
last update 04.02.2020



Summary 107:
Protection of designations of origin and geographical indications
Protecting products from the misuse, imitation and evocation of registered names
Protection for products originating in a specific place, region or, in exceptional cases, a country
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 1257/1999 on the protection of designs of origin
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to protect products originating from specific places, regions or countries in the European Union (EU).
It sets out rules on the use of protected designations* of origin* and protected geographical indications (DPIs).
KEY POINTS
Designation of origin: a name which identifies a product originating in, originating in or originating in an EU country.
Geographical indication: an indication of the origin of a product which is essentially or exclusively due to a particular geographical environment with its inherent natural and human factors.
The regulation applies to the following products:
prepared meals,
beer,
chocolate and derived products,
bread, pastry, cakes, confectionery, biscuits and other baker’s wares,
beverages made from plant extracts,
pasta*,pasta,
salt.
It does not apply to:
wine;
traditional specialities guaranteed;
plant varieties and animal breeds;
mountain products.
Exemptions
Certain derogations apply to certain categories of products, such as certain types of chocolate as confectionary products. These derogations should be simplified and clarified.
Restriction on use of trade marks
Trade marks may not be used on goods or services that do not comply with the rules of the regulation. Trade marks registered in breach of the first subparagraph may be invalidated.
Trade mark registration
Trade names must be registered in accordance with the following rules:
the registered name must appear in the same field of vision as the product;
the name of the product must appear on the same packaging as the registered name;
trade marks must be accompanied by a description of the geographical area in which the product originates and the production steps of which all take place in the defined geographical area.
In addition, trade marks may be used for the marketing of products which do not conform with the regulations’ specifications.
EU countries must ensure that the registered names are used only for products that meet the specifications set out in the regulation and that they are not used for products which are not covered by the regulations.
Controls
The European Commission is responsible for setting up a system of national control bodies. It is assisted by the Agricultural Product Quality Policy Committee and the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA).
The Commission may also adopt delegated acts, in line with Article 56 of the European Parliament and of the Council, to ensure the proper functioning of these control bodies and to ensure that their work is carried out effectively.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 January 2000.
BACKGROUND
The EU has adopted a number of measures to protect product designations. These include:
Directive (EU) 2016/852 on the harmonisation of the laws of the Member States on the registration of trademarks and trade marks (see summary);
Delegated Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2017/853 on the establishment of a European Commission register of trade mark holders and the harmonization of the rules on trade marks.
For more information, see:
‘Protected designations’ on the European Commission's website.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition into force
Official Journal
Commission Implementing Regulation (EC, EC, EC) No 1101/2000
1.1.2000
-
OJ L 127, 1.2.2000, pp. 1-5
RELATED ACTS
 
                 Commission Implementment (EU), Euratom, Euratom, Euram, Eurom, Euroatom, Eurostat, Europol, Eurojust, Eurocontrol and Eurocontrol-EU, Euro-Mediterranean and Eurostat Implementing Regulations (Euratom) No 1/2000, (EURATOM) No 2/2000 and (Eurostat) No 3/2000 (OJ C 202, 31.6.2002, p. 1)
Commission Delegated Regulations (EU and Euratom), Euram and Euram (Eurocontrol) No 4/2002, (Eurocom) No 5/2003, (EU/EU) No 6/2002 and (EU-Med) No 7/2002 (OCT) No 9/2003).
Council Regulation (EEC, Euratom, EEA, Eurocom, EuroSafeguards (EC).
See consolidated version.
Council Decision (EU



Summary 108:
Safety of oil tankers: EU rules on their design, construction and operation
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 552/2013 on the safety of oil tanker design and operation (recast)
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
   
It aims to improve safety and prevent pollution in maritime transport.
It recasts and repeals Regulation (EC) No 417/2002.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to:
single-hull oil tanker designs and construction;
category 2 and Category 3 oil tanker construction and age.
EU countries are obliged to ensure that:
the ships listed in Annex I to MARPOL 73/78 comply with the double hull or equivalent design requirements;
the flag State administration of an EU country issues a Statement of Compliance and is involved in the CAS survey procedures.
The ships covered by the regulation may continue to operate subject to compliance with a condition assessment scheme (CAS), adopted on 27 April 2001 by Resolution MEPC 94(46) as amended by resolutions MEPC 99(48) of 11 October 2002 and by resolution MEPC 112(50) of 4 December 2003. The CAS is designed to detect structural weaknesses in ageing oil tanker hulls and should apply to all ships above the age of 15 years.
Exemptions from the regulation
The EU countries may grant exemptions from the obligation to comply with certain provisions of the regulation, such as:
continuing operation under the flag of a non-EU country of a Category 2 or Category 3 tanker;
entry into the ports or offshore terminals under the jurisdiction of a Member State of another Member State;
operating in the port of a third Member State in accordance with Regulation 20.
Compliance with the conditions laid down in the regulation must be carried out by:
flag State administrations of the Member States of the EU countries;
contractors of the ships listed above;
shipowners and operators of the vessels covered by this regulation.
Operators must:
ensure that their vessels comply with all the requirements laid down by the EU’s Maritime Safety Agency (MSAA);
operate their vessels under the authority of the flag State of the vessel concerned;
not engage in any activities that could endanger public health or the environment.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
This regulation entered into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union (OJEU).
BACKGROUND
In its communication on a common policy on safe seas, the Commission underlined the need for the EU to support the action in the International Maritime Organisation (IMO) on the reduction of the safety gap between new and existing ships by upgrading and/or phasing out existing ships.
For more information, see:
‘Safe seas’ on the European Commission's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Single hull: a vessel designed and built for the transport of crude oil by road, rail, air or sea.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 550/2013 of 25 November 2013 on the safe operation of single hull oil tanker requirements and repealing Council Regulation (EEC, EC) No 479/2002 (recasts) (O J L 183, 28.11.2013, pp. 1-8)
RELATED DOCUMENTS
 
  барскигарка гранска  гланка, годанна бракка (гродна) блакабка)  Благованцка: гълогана (кандка), гундарна  банта канги (класковна),  хани   кодца и гналнай (кгзан) (кхралка-гона,  кшальна).
Commission Implementing Decision 2014/852/EU of 26 June 2014 on the implementation of Regulation (OEU) 2015/856 laying down the rules on the operation of the single hull of the oil tanker ‘Koruna’ and repealing Decision (Euratom, Euratom) 2016/858 (Oj L 94, 29.6.2014, pp 1-2)
Commission Delegated Regulation 2014/958 of 26 May 2014 laying down rules on compliance with the requirements set out in Annex II of the Treaty on the Functioning of the



Summary 109:
European System of Financial Supervision
European system of financial supervision
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010 establishing the European System of Supervision (ESS)
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes the European system of supervisory authorities (ESAs) to ensure the stability of the EU’s financial system.
It sets out the tasks and responsibilities of the ESAs.
KEY POINTS
The ESAs are responsible for:
supervision of the financial system of the European Union (EU);
the prudential supervision of financial products and services;
the supervision of the activities of financial institutions in the EU; and
the oversight of financial intermediaries.
ESAs are governed by a Board of Supervisors, which is composed of representatives of the national authorities. It meets at least 5 times a year and is chaired by the European Commission.
The European Banking Authority (ESB), the European Securities and Markets Authority and the European Banking Supervisory Board (ESSA) are also observers.
In addition, the European Insurance and Reinsurance Stakeholder Group (EIRG) and the Occupational Pensions Stakeholders Group (OPSG) are involved in the establishment of the ESC.
A Joint Committee on Financial Conglomerates is set up to ensure consistency in ESAs’ activities and to reach common positions where appropriate. It may, together with the ESRB, discuss areas of mutual interest and inform each other of the other issues being discussed.
Each year, the board of supervisors, on the basis of a draft statement drawn up by the Executive Director and approved by the Management Board, produces a statement of estimates of revenue and expenditure of the authority for the following financial year. This is made available to the European Parliament, the Council, the Commission, the EIBG and the OIRG.
An Executive Director may participate in meetings of the Board of supervisors without the right to vote. The EIRG and OSPG have the power to adopt regulatory technical standards in the absence of an ESAs draft.
To ensure that the ESC is not subject to undue political pressure, it has adopted a work programme. The work programme must be adopted without prejudice to the annual budgetary procedure and must be made public.
FROM WHEN DOES THE LEGULATION APPLY?
 
It has applied since 1 January 2011.
BACKGROUND
The ESC was set up following the recommendation of the de Larosière Report in 2010. The report represented the reforms the experts considered were needed and on which work had to begin immediately.
For more information, see:
European financial supervisory bodies (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Supervisory authority: a body with legal personality.
* Financial intermediaries: a financial institution that provides services to consumers and businesses.
MAIN DOCUMENT
   
  Еганска граба баркова   Загода
Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 1109/2010 of 27 December 2010 establishing the Member States’ Supervisory Authorities (OJ L 136, 1.1.2011, pp. 1–8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (Euratom) no 1109 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
 Â  Â
  ‘Financial Supervision’ of the Council and of the Representatives of the Governments, of the Regions and the States of the Union, amending Council Regulation (EC) No 552/2009 on the Single Supervisory Mechanism and repealing Council Regulations (EC, EC, EC and EFTA) No 652/2008, (EC), No 653/2009 and (EC).
last update 04.02.2016



Summary 110:
Freedom of movement of workers and their employment: EU countries’s common rules on freedom of movement and equality of treatment of workers (Codified Regulation (EU) No 652/2011)
Freedom of mobility of workers: EU country’S common rules for freedom of mobility and equality between workers and employers
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 608/2011 on the freedom to move within the European Union
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out the conditions under which workers from one EU country have the right to work in another EU country without any discrimination.
It codifies and repeals Regulation (Euratom) No 552/2009.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to all workers wishing to work or pursue an activity in the territory of an EU country, irrespective of their nationality.
Any national of a EU country may exchange their applications for and offers of employment, and conclude and perform contracts of employment in accordance with the provisions in force laid down by law, regulation or administrative action.
Workers wishing to move should also be regularly informed of living and working conditions. The specialist services of each EU country must forward this information to the appropriate employment services and agencies as soon as possible.
The Advisory Committee is responsible for assisting the Commission in the examination of any questions arising from the application of the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU and measures taken in pursuance thereof, in matters concerning the freedom of moving workers and employment. It meets at least twice a year. The Commission publishes a list of services for information, and any amendment thereto, in the Official Journal of the Union.
Equal treatment for workers
Equality of treatment is guaranteed for all workers in the EU, including:
the right to take up available employment with the same priority as nationals of that country;
equality of treatment with regard to working conditions;
access to education and training;
the possibility to participate in the management of bodies governed by public law and from holding an office.
Employment and equal treatment
Employers must treat all workers with equal treatment when they employ them.
In addition, employers must ensure that:
all workers have the same access to education, training and professional qualifications;
all employees have equal access to health and safety;
employers have equal treatment with respect to the conditions of working time;
any worker who is unemployed has the same rights as any other worker.
Non-EU nationals may not be excluded from taking part in public administration or from holding public office. However, they may be subject to certain conditions, such as:
being excluded from the exercise of their voting rights;
being subject to a ban on the participation of non-EU citizens in public life;
not being able to vote in national elections; and
being denied the right of residence or residence.
FROM WHEN DOES THE REGULE APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 July 2011.
BACKGROUND
 
  *   * * 
For more information, see:
‘Freedom to move’ on the European Commission's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Employment: any contract of employment concluded between an employer and a worker for the purpose of providing him or her with a service or service provision.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Commission Implementing Decision 2011/652/EU
1.7.2011
-
OJ L 136 of 1.7-7.2012
RELATED ACTS
  ARTICLE
  -
  The European Commission Implementing Directive 2011/7/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 June 2011 establishing a European Union Agency for Employment and Social Affairs (EASA).
last update 04.02.2016



Summary 111:
Protocol on the protection of the ozone layer
Protocol against the depletion of ozone-depleting substances
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 552/2009 on the implementation of the Montreal Protocol on the Protection of the Ozone Layer
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to ensure that the Protocol to the Convention on Biological Diversity (Ozone Layer) is fully implemented.
It repeals and repeals Regulation (Euratom) No 852/2008.
KEY POINTS
The regulation lays down rules on the production, import, export, placing on the market and use of certain substances. It also sets out the conditions for the placing on market and the use of these substances for essential laboratory and analytical uses, as well as processes in which these substances may be used as process agents.
In addition, it sets out a list of the substances that are prohibited for use in the manufacture, maintenance or servicing of products and equipment, including refilling, and in other processes, which contain controlled substances or new substances.
This regulation applies to:
any natural or legal person which:
produces, recovers, recycles, reclaims, uses or destroys such substances;
imports them;
exports them to a non-EU country;
places them on the European Union (EU) market;
operates refrigeration, air conditioning or heat pump equipment, or fire protection systems, that contain them.
Any undertaking that uses, refurbishing, refilling or servicing a product or equipment containing a controlled substance or new substance must inform the European Commission of its use.
The Commission may adopt measures to ensure compliance with the regulation’s rules. These measures must be effective, proportionate and dissuasive.
EU countries must ensure that:
there are no exceptions to the above-mentioned rules;
there is no derogation from the prohibition of the production of controlled substances and new substances in the following areas:
the production of new substances,
the import, import and export of such substances, and
the use of the chemicals used in these processes;
processes in which the substances are used as a process agent are prohibited.
There are exemptions for certain substances, such as:
chlorinated biphenyls,
nitrous oxide,
dioxins,
fluorocarbons,
sulphur dioxide,
methane,
pesticides,
polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs),
chlorine,
pentachloroethane and
nitrosamines.
Exemptions
The following substances are not covered by the regulation:
1.1.2.3.4.5 methyl bromide,
2.5.4-5.6-7.7-8-9-10-11-12-13-14-15-16-17-18-19-20-21-22-23-24-25-26-27-28-29-30-31-31
1,1,2-trichloroethyl esters,
1-1-2-3-4-3.5-5-6-2.7.8-12.9-13.10-14.11-19
2-1.3-5-[1]2-2-[1]-3-3]-4-4-[2]-5-[3]-5-4]-6-5]-7-7-9-[4-6]-9-9]-10-10]-11-11-[4]-12-11]-13-13]-14-13].
3-1-[2]3-2]-4-[3]4-[4]5-[5]-6-[6]-10]-12-[7]-11]-12]-13-[4].
4-1]-2-[5]7-[6]9-[7]10-12]-11-[8]11-13]
5-12]
6-12-[9]-12]13-12].
7-14]
8-13)
10-13
11-14)
12-14
15-15
16-16
17-17
18-18
19-19.
20-20
21-21
22-22
23-23
24-24
25-25
26-26
27-27
28-28
29-29
30-30
31-32
31-(1)
33-34)
31 (1) The regulation does not apply to the following substances:
3-(2)2-4)3-(3)4)5-[2)5-2)6-3)7-4]8-5)9-6-[3-(4)6-[4)7]-8]9



Summary 112:
European Union Agency for the Protection of the Environment (EPA)
European Union agency for the protection of the environment (EPA).
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 1210/90 — codification of Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It codifies and repeals Regulation (EEC) 1205/90.
It sets out the tasks and responsibilities of the European Union Agency (EPA), the EU’s environmental protection agency.
KEY POINTS
The Agency is responsible for:
the day-to-day administration of the Agency;
the performance of the tasks defined in Articles 12 and 13 of the regulation;
preparing and executing the decisions and programmes adopted by the Management Board; and
the preparation and publication of the reports.
The Executive Director is responsible:
for the proper preparation and execution of the decision-making process and the implementation of the management board's decisions, as well as for all staff matters;
for managing the Agency's budget.
EU countries must keep the Agency informed of the main component elements of their national environment information networks, especially in the priority areas, including any institution which in their judgment could contribute to the work of the agency, taking into account the need to ensure the fullest possible geographical coverage of their territory.
Each year, the Executive Director draws up a draft estimate of the revenue and expenditure for the following financial year. This is based on an estimate drawn up by the Agency on the basis of a draft draft draft. The Executive Director submits this estimate to the European Parliament and the European Council. The European Parliament, at the latter's request, at its request, for the smooth application of the discharge procedure for the financial year in question, as laid down in Articles 146(3) and 147(3).
The Management Board is composed of representatives of EU countries. It is chaired by the European Commission and comprises representatives of the Member States.
Decisions of the Board are adopted by a two-thirds majority of the members of the board, with the support of the Commission and the Council of the EU. The Agency is funded by the EU budget. The budget is in balance.
In addition, the Agency is assisted by the Institute for Reference Materials and Measurements (IRM).
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULATIONS APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 January 2009.
BACKGROUND
The European Union (EU) Environment Agency is one of the most important bodies in the field of environmental protection. Its main tasks are to:
collect, analyse and disseminate information on the European environment;
coordinate the activities of national environmental information networks;
cooperate with EU countries in the areas of transfrontier, plurinational and global phenomena;
provide technical advice and guidance on the development of national information networks.
For more information, see:
European Environment Agency (European Commission).
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (European Parliament and Council of 21 December 2008 on the codification and implementation of Regulation [Official Journal C 162 of 25.6.2008].
Successive amendments to Regulation (ESC) No 605/2008 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
 
Council Decision 2008/852/EC of 25 November 2008 on a European Union Environment Agency for Protection of The Environment (OJ L 165 of 27.11.2008).
See consolidated version.
last update 04.02.2016



Summary 113:
Registration of environmental organisations in the European Union (EU) (EMAS) — rules on environmental assessment and monitoring
Registration of European Union organisations (EAS)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 761/2001 on the registration and monitoring of European environmental organisations
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out the rules on the EU’s environmental assessment* and monitoring* system, known as EMAS.
It aims to ensure that organisations are able to comply with EU environmental legislation.
KEY POINTS
EU countries must ensure that:
organisations are registered in accordance with the EMAS register;
they comply with the requirements of the regulation;
their environmental review, environmental policy, environmental management system and internal environmental audit and its implementation fulfils the requirements;
the organisation has been accredited or has been granted a licence by a competent body.
Organisations are required to:
ensure that their environmental review and environmental policy and environmental management systems are in line with the legislation;
establish and implement a comprehensive environmental management and monitoring system;
provide information on the environmental aspects of their activities;
implement an environmental management plan.
The regulation sets out a procedure for the accreditation and licensing of organisations. The competent bodies must:
conduct a conformity assessment and an internal audit;
assess the organisations’ compliance with the regulations;
conduct an environmental verification;
certify that the organisation has complied with the regulation.
If an organisation does not comply with these requirements, it must inform the competent bodies and the European Commission of the reasons for its withdrawal from the following categories of organisations:
non-governmental organisations
small and medium-sized organisations
environmental non-profit organisations
public interest organisations
research and development organisations
social partners.
National authorities must take appropriate measures to encourage the participation of small organisations, inter alia by:
facilitating access to information and support funds specially adapted to them;
ensuring that reasonable registration fees encourage their participation;
promoting technical assistance measures.
EMAS is a tool in the context of application and enforcement of EU environmental law. It can be used as a tool for:
monitoring the environmental status of organisations;
collecting and analysing information on environmental issues;
checking that organisations comply with environmental legislation; and
providing information on legal requirements relating to the environment in that EU country.
In addition, the regulation sets up a network of environmental accreditation bodies (NACE Codes) and a licensing body (Licensing Bodies).
The European Commission is assisted by a committee.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULATIONS APPLY?
   
It applies from 11 January 2011. EU countries had to incorporate it into national law by 11 January 2012.
BACKGROUND
The EMAS regulation is part of the framework for the implementation of the European Environment Action Programme (see summary).
For more information, see:
‘EMAS’ on the European Agency for Safety and Health at Work website.
* KEY TERMS
* Environmental assessment: the conformity assessment process carried out by an environmental verifier to demonstrate whether an organisation's environmental review or environmental policy (environmental management system or environmental management) meets the legal requirements of EMAS and whether its implementation meets the requirements.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States: 11.1.2011
Official Journal: EMAS (OJ L 157, 11.2.2011, pp. 1-8)
Regulations (EC, No 765/2001, No 852/2004, No 906/2006, No 1052/2008, No 1152/2009, No 1252/2010, No 1352/2011, No 1452/2012, No 1552/2013, No 1652/2014, No 1752/2015, No 1852/2016, No 1952/2017, No 2052/2018, and No 2053/2018
* Accreditation and Licensing Body: the body responsible for granting an accreditation or licence to an organisation. It may be national, regional or local.
Licensing body: the competent body that issues a licence or accreditation number.
MAIN DOCUMENT
 
  The European Parliament and the Council of 11 December 2001 on the Registration and Monitoring of European Environmental Organisations (EEMAS Regulation) and amending Council Regulation (EC), No 652/2003, No 653/2004 and No 1053/2014 (OJR L 157 of 11.12.2001, pp.(1-2)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 768/2004 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
Communication from the Commission to the European Parliament, the Council, the European



Summary 114:
Rules on the definition, description, presentation and labelling of spirit drinks (Regulation (EC) No 1576/89) and on the protection of geographical indications of certain spirit drinks [See amending act(s)].
SUMMARY
WHAT DOES THIS REGULATION DO?
It sets out the rules applicable to spirit drinks.
It repeals and replaces Regulation (EEC) 1575/89.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to all spirit drinks, regardless of their country of origin. It does not apply to:
wholly alcoholic drinks;
alcoholic drinks containing more than 0.1% alcohol;
spirits containing less than 1% alcohol.
Labelling
A spirit drink must bear the sales denomination ‘spirit drink’. It must also bear the name ‘slivovice’ in the same visual field on the front label.
Where there has been addition of alcohol, as defined in Annex I(5), diluted or not, to a spirit drink listed in categories 1 to 14 of Annex II, that spirit drink shall bear the label ‘spirits’ and may also use the name’s ‘S’ or ‘K’ on the back label. However, drinks falling within CN codes 2203, 2204, 2205, 2206 and 2207 may not be considered spirit drinks and must not be labelled as such.
If there is no alcohol in the product category, the label must state that the spirit drink is not alcoholic.
The label must also state:
a spirit drink has been produced using ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin;
the spirit drink contains a geographical indication of its origin.
an alcoholic content of 0.
the product must be accompanied by a description of its flavour and
the name of the country of manufacture.
a product must not contain more than 1.5% alcohol and
must not be flavoured.
In addition, a product may not contain:
sugars or other alcoholic drinks with a maximum methanol content of 5 grams per hectolitre of 100% vol.
grape marc spirit or grape marc marc may be sweetened to a maximum of 20 grams per litre expressed as invert sugar.
Annex III sets out rules for the labelling and presentation of spirits with a specific flavour.
Regulation No 2207 lays down the rules on the registration of spirits and their labelling.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 January 2006.
BACKGROUND
The European Commission has adopted a number of implementing acts to modernise and simplify the rules relating to the regulation. These include:
the introduction of a harmonised labelling system for spirit drinks in the European Union (EU);
the harmonisation of labelling rules for alcoholic drinks and their presentation in the EU countries;
rules on the marketing of spirits.
For more information, see:
‘Spirits and their packaging’ (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Agri-foods: products produced from agricultural products.
* Agricultural products: products derived from the production of agricultural products, such as wine, beer, cider, rum, wine-based spirits, cidery spirits and cidery products, which are not alcoholic and which have a high alcohol content.
** Spirits: drinks with an alcoholic content that is higher than the percentage by volume of pure alcohol it represents in the total pure alcohol content by volume.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EU) No 1157/2006 of 12 December 2006 on the definitions, description and presentation, labelling, protection of the geographical indications and the regulation on spirit drinks of the Member States (OJ L 283, 14.12.2006, pp. 1-17)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1179/2006 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
 
Regulations (EC and Euratom Implementing Decision No 596/2006/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2006 establishing a European Commission Committee for Spirit Drinks and repealing Council Regulation No 576/1989 and Commission Implementing Regulation No 1577/89 of the same name and amending Council Regulations No 597/2004, No 598/2004 and No 599/2004 as regards the definition and description of alcoholic drinks, their presentation, presentation or labelling;
Commission Implementing Directive 2006/8/EC establishing a Committee for the marketing and presentation and regulation on the regulation concerning the regulation relating to spirits, their packaging and the registration;
Directive 2006/9/EC on the harmonisation and marketing of alcohol and its presentation, and repealing Regulation No 1082/2004 of the Court of Auditors of the Community and repealing Commission



Summary 115:
Safeguarding civil aviation
Securing civil aviation: common rules for safeguarding passengers, cargo and mail
Security of passengers, goods and mail: common European Union rules
Safer air transport: common EU rules for the protection of persons and goods
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out common rules to protect passengers and goods travelling within the European Union (EU).
It aims to prevent acts of unlawful interference with civil aircraft that jeopardise the security of civil aviation.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to:
air carriers operating in the EU and on flights of air carriers licensed by it as well as to air carriers flying from non-EU countries;
government personnel who are specially selected and trained, taking into account the required security and safety aspects on board an aircraft.
EU countries must draw up, apply and maintain an airport security programme. This programme must be relevant, objective, non-discriminatory and proportional to the risk that is being addressed.
Each EU country must deploy in-flight security officers on aircraft registered in that EU country and in flights of airlines licensed by that country.
In addition, each EU country may decide whether to deploy security officers in the following areas:
on board aircraft;
on flights of an air carrier flying from an EU country to another EU country;
at airports.
Security officers must be trained and trained in accordance with the requirements of the Chicago Convention on International Civil Aviation and under the terms of that convention.
They must be able to carry out their duties in a manner that is appropriate to the safety of passengers and cargo;
in-related to the security and security aspects of the flight.
Airport security measures must be in place of proportionate and proportionate effect to the size of the aircraft and to the nature, scale or frequency of operations or of other relevant activities.
More stringent measures applied by EU countries may be justified by:
the size or the number of passengers;
the number of persons on board the aircraft; or
the nature or scale of the operations.
National civil aviation security programme
National authorities must ensure that:
a national security programme is drawn up, applied and maintained;
airport security officers are recruited and trained; and
airports are equipped and equipped with the necessary equipment and personnel.
FROM WHEN DOES IT APPLY?
Regulation (EC) No 849/2004 (OJ L 158, 30.6.2004, pp. 1-8)
It has applied since 20 June 2004.
BACKGROUND
   
The United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) provides the basis for a common interpretation of Annex 17 to the Chicago convention on international civil aviation, which sets out the rules and standards applicable to the carriage of cargo, mail and passengers.
For more information, see:
‘Civil aviation security’ on the European Commission’s website.
* KEY TERMS
* Inflight security officer: a security officer who is specially selected, trained and specially selected to take account of the safety aspects of passenger and cargo transport, and who is responsible for the security, safety and security of aircraft and passengers on board.
Cargo: a consignor who originates cargo or mail for its own account and whose procedures meet common security rules and standard requirements sufficient to allow carriage of goods or mail on any aircraft, but whose procedures do not meet the security requirements.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EU) No 552/2008 of 20 May 2008 on the adoption, on behalf of the European Community, of common regulations for the safeguarding of persons, goods, and mail within the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, No 2320/2002 on the establishment of a European Union Aviation Safety Agency.
Successive amendments to Regulation (EEC, EC, EC) No 540/2008 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
 
Regulations (EU, EU, EFTA and EFTA countries) No 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 28 and 28 of the same year as the original regulation.
Commission Implementing Decision 2008/852/EC of 27 March 2008 establishing a European Aviation Safety Authority and amending Council Regulations (EC), No 851/2004, No 852/2004 and No 853/2004 as regards the establishment, application and maintenance of an aviation Safety Agency and establishing the European Aviation Security Agency (EASA).
Commission Decision (CFSP) No 609/2009 of 27 February 2009 establishing a Commission Aviation Safety Advisory Group.
Council Decision (EU), EU, EU countries and the Commission



Summary 116:
Restrictive measures against human rights violations and abuses: EU sanctions (2018) (Official Journal L 295 of 23.10.2018)
EU sanctions (18)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (CFSP) 2018/2018 on the freezing of funds and economic resources of individuals, entities and bodies responsible for, providing support to or otherwise involved in serious human rights abuses or abuses
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to impose sanctions on individuals and entities involved in human rights and human rights-related violations or abuses in the European Union (EU).
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to:
individuals* and entities* responsible for:
human rights violations* and abuses* in the EU;
providing support to and otherwise engaging in such violations;
other actors exercising effective control or authority over a territory;
non-EU actors exercising control or authorities over a country;
state actors exercising effectively control or control over a region;
foreign non-state actors, subject to Article 1(4) of Decision 2020/1999.
EU countries must notify the European Commission and the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy (the ‘High Representative’) of their decision-making procedures and the names and contact details of any persons, entities or bodies whose funds or economic resources are to be frozen in accordance with this regulation. The Commission must also notify the EU countries of any changes in the addresses of their websites listed in Annex II of the regulation.
The European Union’s financial sanctions map (Annex I to the list of persons, groups and entities subject to EU financial sanctions and the interactive sanctions map, as set out in the regulation, which is publicly available, must be made available to the public.
Actions must be taken only when there is reason to believe that they would infringe the measures laid down in this regulation, or that they are likely to infringe them. Actions by individuals or entities may not give rise to any liability of any kind on their part if they did not know, and had no reasonable cause to suspect, that their actions would violate the measures set out. The penalties provided for must be effective, proportionate and dissuasive.
To ensure maximum legal certainty within the EU, EU countries must inform the Commission of their competent authorities, including the contact details, of any frozen funds, economic resources and persons whose names and other relevant data are made public. They must also inform the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee (EEC) and the Commission.
In addition, the Commission must:
process personal data in order to carry out its tasks under this regulation;
add the contents of the annex to the electronic, consolidated list of people, groups or entities covered by this regulation and to the interactive EU sanctions map;
process information on the impact of the measures provided for in this Regulation such as the value of frozen funds and information on authorisations granted by the competent authorities.
FROM WHEN DOES THE REGULE APPLY?
   
It has applied since 23 October 2018. EU countries had to incorporate it into national law by 23 November 2018.
BACKGROUND
 
  * KEY TERMS
* Human rights violations: violations of human rights or abuses committed in the context of a legitimate political, economic or social interest.
* Non-state actor: any person, entity or body that has the power to exercise effective control, authority or authority to exercise such control, exercise or authority in a territory.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Council Regulation (EU) No 1810/2018
23.11.2018
-
OJ L 295, 23.12.2018, pp. 1-2
RELATED ACTS
                                   Council Decision (EU, Euratom) 2020/2000 of 23 October 2000 on the application of targeted restrictive measures against persons and entities responsible for or providing support for, or otherwise participating in, violations of the fundamental rights and fundamental freedoms of the European Community (OJ C 202, 29.10-31.2000, pp.).
Council Decision 2014/852/EU of 27 June 2014 on the implementation of targeted sanctions against persons, companies and entities engaged in or providing financial support to, or providing other forms of support to human rights abusers (O J L 347, 28.6.2014, pp.)
See consolidated version.
last update 04.02.2019



Summary 117:
EU naval operation in the Mediterranean (EUNAFOR MED IRINI)
EU naval action in the Caribbean
SUMMARY OF:
Decision (CFSP) 2020/472 on a European Union military operation in Libya
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DECISION?
It authorises the EU to launch a military operation to combat human smuggling and trafficking in the eastern Mediterranean.
It sets out the tasks of the EU naval mission in the area of the Mediterranean, known as EUNAVFOR MEDIRINI.
KEY POINTS
The EU’s Political and Security Committee (PSC) exercises political control over the operation, providing it with strategic direction and taking the relevant decisions in accordance with the third paragraph of Article 38 of the Treaty on European Union (TEU).
The PSC is responsible for the political control and strategic direction of the operation.
The operation is based on the European Union Military Mission (EUMC) and the European Maritime Safety Agency (EMSA).
It is designed to contribute to the implementation of UN measures to prevent the illicit export of petroleum from Libya, to capacity building and training of the Libyan Coast Guard and Navy, and to the disruption of the business model of human trafficking and trafficking networks.
As its core tasks, EUNAFOR Med IRINIs:
contribute to the UN arms embargo on Libya with aerial, satellite and maritime assets;
supports the UN measures against illicit exports of petroleum;
cooperates with the European Border and Coast Guard (EBS) in the Libyan coast guard and navy;
collects and stores personal data concerning persons involved in the carriage of prohibited items;
disrupts the trafficking and smuggling networks;
ensures that vessels are diverted to ports designated for the purpose of preventing human smuggling;
contains EU-led units and personnel in order to fulfil its tasks;
operates under the authority of the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy (HR).
Operation Commander
Rear Admiral Fabio AGOSTINI is appointed EU Operation Commander.
EUMC
The European Union Mission in Libya (EUEMSA) is the operational command and control body for the EUNFORCE OF THE OPERATION
The decision authorises EUEMSA to:
operate in the maritime area of interest;
provide operational support to the EUMC and the EBS;
carry out its tasks under the operational control of the PSC.
FROM WHEN DOES THE COVID-19 DECISION APPLY?
The Decision has applied since 31 March 2020.
BACKGROUND
On 19 January 2020, a Conference was held in Berlin on Libya.
For more information, see:
European Union military operations in the Eastern Mediterranean (European External Action Service).
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Decision (EUCFSP/2020/472
31.4.2020
-
OJ L 101 of 31.3.2020.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
Communication from the Commission to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee, the Committee of the Regions and the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy: European Union naval operation against human smuggling in the east Mediterranean (COM(2020) 696 final - Not published in the Official Journal)
Council Directive (EU) 2020-852/2014 of 31 March 2014 on the establishment of an EU military operation against the trafficking in human beings in the western Mediterranean (Official Journal L 101/4) (OJ C 202 of 27.4-28.2014).
Council Decision (EC) No 696/2014/EU of 27 February 2014 on a military action against the smuggling of human beings by sea and establishing an EU naval operation to counter the trafficking of human smugglers in the west Mediterranean and establishing a European Border Guard in the south-east Mediterranean (official Journal L 102 of 28.2.2014.
See consolidated version.
last update 04.01.2020



Summary 118:
Fraudulent documents: the exchange of information on authentic and false ones (FADO system)
Formal and non-formal documents
Document fraud can undermine the internal security of the European Union (EU). To combat this threat, the European Border and Coast Guard Agency (EBCG) set up the FADO (Fraud Analysis and Detection Online Online Online System) to exchange information on authenticity and on known methods of falsification between EU countries.
ACT
Regulation (EU) 2019/1896 on the establishment of a European Union Agency for Law Enforcement Cooperation (EUBG) and establishing the Facilitation of the Exchange of Information on Authentic Documents and on Known Methods of Falsification between Member States.
SUMMARY
WHAT DOES THIS REGULATION DO?
The regulation establishes a common EU-wide information exchange system for authentic and falsified documents. It sets up the Facilitating of Access to Documents Online (FadO) system.
It establishes the EBCG’s role as the central point of contact for EU countries’ authorities in the field of document fraud.
KEY POINTS
The European Union agency responsible for the operation of the system, known as the EUBG Agency, is responsible for entering in the system the information it receives. The information it enters into the system consists of:
information on authentic documents, including images, and specimens thereof, and their security features;
information, including photographs, on false documents, whether forged, counterfeit or pseudo documents and their fraud characteristics;
summaries of forgery techniques;
details of the security features of authentic documents;
statistics on detected false documents.
The Agency must take the necessary steps to pseudonymise all elements of personal data which are not necessary in relation to the purposes for which the data are processed in accordance with the principle of data minimisation.
In addition, the Agency must:
ensure the uniformity and quality of the information that it receives;
provide the EU countries with support in the detection of false documents and information on the methods of their falsification;
assist the European Commission in its work.
FROM WHEN DOES THE REGULATIONS APPLY?
   
The regulations have applied since 1 January 2019.
BACKGROUND
The EU has been working towards a single European Union system of identification and verification of authentic and counterfeit documents for over a decade.
For more information, see:
‘Document Identification and Verification Online System’ on the Europol website.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Implementing act
Council Regulation (EC) No 552/2019
1.1.2019
-
OJ L 140 of 1.2.2019.
Amending act(s)
Commission Delegated Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2018/852
2.3.2018
3.3-
Commission Implementing Regulation (Euratom) No 479/2018
4.3.-
Commission Decision (EU Euratom), Euratom No 579/2010
5.5.2010
Last updated: 27.07.2018



Summary 119:
Proportionality of EU rules on access to, or the pursuit of, regulated professions (Directive 2005/36/EC) (European Commission).
Penalties for infringements of the principle of proportionality in the field of the regulation of regulated professions.
SUMMARY
WHAT DOES THIS DIRECTIVE DO?
It establishes a European Union (EU) framework for regulating the access to and pursuit of a regulated profession.
It requires EU countries to assess the proportionality of their requirements and to communicate the results of that assessment to the European Commission, launching a ‘mutual evaluation process’.
KEY POINTS
The directive applies to all regulated professions, including those that are regulated indirectly by giving a particular professional body the power to regulate.
EU countries must ensure that the measures they adopt are proportionate to the public interest and that they do not impose disproportionate restrictions on the access of professionals.
The measures must be justified on the grounds of:
the public interest;
the protection of workers’ rights; or
the improvement of the quality of life of consumers.
Where a regulation is justified on grounds of public interest, EU countries must take account of the fact that scientific and technological developments could reduce or increase the asymmetry of information between professionals and consumers. The introduction of additional requirements may be suitable to attain these objectives.
In addition, the regulation must be accompanied by an analysis of the appropriateness and proportional of the measure adopted by that EU country and by specific evidence substantiating its arguments.
Ex ante assessment of new measures and monitoring of new provisions
EU governments must assess the new or amended provisions after their adoption. They must immediately inform the Commission of the measures and their results. The Commission should facilitate that exchange.
FROM WHEN DOES THE DIRECTIVE APPLY?
Directive 2006/33/EC entered into force on 1 January 2006.
BACKGROUND
 
   
The regulation of the regulated professions is one of the general principles of EU law. It aims to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market and to avoid disproportionate restrictions.
For more information, see:
‘Regulation of the European Union’ on the Commission’s website.
* KEY TERMS
* Regulated profession: any profession which is regulated by an EU country.
MAIN DOCUMENT
  барска гранда варка, г.р.2006, pp. 1-8
Successive amendments to Directive 2006/34/EC have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 04.02.2016



Summary 120:
Fisheries management plan for the North Sea and Baltic Sea (2016-2021)
Fishers management plan: 2016–2021
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 1380/2013 laying down a multiannual plan for fisheries management in EU waters of the north sea and the Baltic Sea
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out the EU’s strategy for the sustainable management of fish stocks in Union waters.
It aims to restore fish stocks, in the shortest time feasible, at least to levels that can produce maximum sustainable yield (MSY) as determined by their biological characteristics.
KEY POINTS
The plan covers:
the management of fishing opportunities;
the landing obligation for all stocks of species to which the landing obligation applies;
management of by-catch stocks; and
the conservation reference points to safeguard the full reproductive capacity of the stocks referred to in the plan.
The European Commission is responsible for drawing up the management plan. It is assisted by the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea (ICES) and the European Fisheries Management Agency (EFMA).
The management plan must:
contain a range of FMSY values for the stocks covered by the plan;
be based on the best available scientific advice;
provide a detailed description of the management measures to be taken to ensure that the plan is implemented;
ensure that fishing opportunities are set according to the best scientific advice available;
establish a total allowable catch (TAC) for a given year.
the plan must be updated every 5 years, taking into account the changes in fishing opportunities and the number of fishing vessels.
set out the management of the fishing opportunities for a certain stock.
Management of the plan
Management measures including, where appropriate, fishing opportunities, must be set taking account of scientific advice and must be consistent with the objectives laid down in Article 3 of the regulation.
In addition, the plan must provide for additional management measures for additional species to be further specified in accordance with Article 18 of that regulation. The plan must also specify details for the implementation of the EU landing obligation.
Where the Council takes into account a significant impact of recreational fisheries in the framework of the fisheries for a particular stock, it should be able to set a TAC for commercial catches which takes account of the volume of recreational catches and/or to adopt other measures restricting recreational fisheries such as bag limits and closure periods.
Fishing opportunities must be adjusted to take account of changes in the fishing conditions and the quantity of fish caught in the fishery.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
The regulation has applied since 1 January 2014.
BACKGROUND
The EU has agreed to establish a single multiiannual fisheries management plan covering the whole North Sea, the Baltic and the Black Sea.
For more information, see:
North Sea fisheries management (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Maximum sustainable yield: the maximum yield of a fish stock over the long-term compared to its maximum yield. This is calculated using the range of Maximum Sustainable Yields for the period 2004-2020.
* Minimum sustainable yield for a stock: the minimum yield of fish stock that can be expected to yield MSY over a given period of time.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 1308/2013 of 21 December 2013 laying down an annual plan for fishery management in European Union waters (North Sea, Baltic Sea and Black Sea) and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 423/2008 (OJ L 348, 20.12.2013, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (Euratom) 2016/1380 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
Council Decision (EU/EU) 2015/852/EU of 25 November 2015 on the implementation by the European Commission of the multiannually plan for fishing opportunities in European waters of certain stocks of certain fish species and repealing Regulations (EC, EC, EC) No 552/2008 and (EC), No 553/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council of the Union concerning the European Maritime Safety Agency (EMSA).
See consolidated version.
last update 04.02.2021



Summary 121:
Convention on the Law of the Sea — conservation and management of the marine resources of the South Pacific Fishery Management Organisation (SPFMO Convention Area)
CONVENTION ON THE LAW OF THE SOUTH PACIFIC FISHING MANAGEMENT AND CONTROL MEASURES OF THE SPRFMO CONVENTION AREA
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 1224/2009 — management, conservation and control measures relating to certain fishing methods in the south Pacific fishery management area
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out rules for the conservation, conservation, management and control of certain methods of fishing for certain marine resources in the southern Pacific Fisheries Management Organisation.
It aims to ensure that these methods are sustainable and do not lead to overfishing.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to:
fishing for:
jack mackerel;
seabirds;
sharks;
marine mammals;
fishermen’s equipment;
bottom fishing.
EU countries must:
report to the European Commission on the catches of bottom fishing species from the preceding month in accordance with Article 33 of the regulation;
ensure that the Commission receives a report every 15 days on the number of catches of top fishing species.
The Commission must also collect data on:
the number of vessels registered in each EU country;
the total number of fishing vessels registered and registered in the EU;
total number of commercial fishing vessels in each year.
Fishing methods
the types of fishing methods employed and the number and quantities of fish caught.
FROMISSIONS
Each year, EU countries must send a report to the Commission on their catches of the following:
captive fish caught by bottom fishing vessels;
jacks caught by top fishing vessels.
In addition, the Commission must collect:
data on the total number and quantity of commercial vessels registered, registered or registered in an EU country,
number of vessels in the SPRFishing vessel registration system
number and type of fishing vessel registration;
details of the unloading fishing vessel.
If the Commission considers that a fishing vessel is not complying with the regulation, it must inform the European Maritime Safety Agency (ESA) of the reasons for its withdrawal from the regulation.
Control of third country fishing vessels
Third-country fishing vessels are subject to the following control measures:
control of vessel registration, registration number and IHS Fairplay number (if applicable);
the use of large-scale pelagic driftnets and all deepwater gillnets;
use of bird scaring (tori) lines in use;
monitoring of the use of bird bafflers and other bycatch mitigation measures employed;
records of the amount (weight or volume) of remaining marine resources not recorded under point (j), (k) or (l) discarded, split to the lowest known taxon.
Monitoring and reporting of the EU countries’ compliance with Regulation (EU) 2018/852
The European Commission must send the Commission a report on the results of its monitoring and reporting activities every 3 years. The Commission must forward that information to the Secretariat at least 30 days before the changes take effect. It must also forward the information it receives from the Commission to the United Nations Maritime Organization (UNMOM) and the European Fisheries Management Organization (EFMO) at least 3 months before the change takes effect.
Bycatch mitigation and conservation measures must be in place to minimise the impact of bycatch on the marine environment and to prevent the spread of disease, parasites and other threats to marine life. These measures must include:
preventing the spread and spread of diseases, parasites, diseases and bycatch;
collecting and analysing the quantities of marine life that are likely to be affected by bycatch, including bycatch and parasites;
keeping records of the number, type, quantity and types of marine mammals and birds caught;
reporting on the amount of marine resources caught and disposed of;
assessing the impact on the environment and the conservation of the biodiversity of the sea.
Reporting
The EU country must report the following to the EU Commission every 3 months:
categories of fishing species;
catch of bottom-fishing species; and
total catches.
Data reporting
The data must be collected on the following fishing methods:
top fishing;
captives’ equipment and equipment used;
unloading fishing vessels’ number of registered fishing vessels and registration numbers;
ships’ registration numbers and IMO number;
shipments and transshipment times;
quantitative data on the quantity of fishing gear used.
Commission Implementing Decision (EU, Euratom) 2019/853 amends Regulation (EC, EC, EEA) No 652/2009. It amends the annexes to the regulation in order to include the following information:
number, type and



Summary 122:
Unaccompanied cash: rules on the disclosure of cash in the EU (Regulation (EC) No 1889/2005 on controls of cash entering or leaving the EU)
Unaccompanied money: controls on the distribution of cash (Regulations (EU) 2016/679, 2016/865 and 2016/965)
SUMMARY OF:
Delegated Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 865/2014 on the obligation to disclose unaccompanied cash
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes a common EU-wide system of controls on unaccompanied cash.
It aims to prevent the introduction of illicit proceeds into the EU’s economy and the diversion of money to finance illicit activities.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to the following categories of cash:
currency, bearer-negotiable instruments, commodities used as highly-liquid stores of value and certain types of prepaid cards.
In addition, it applies to:
unaccompanied cash*;
cash used as a highly liquid store of value;
currency with a gold content of at least 90%;
covert cash;
prepaid cards*.
The competent authorities of EU countries have the power to carry out controls on any consignments, receptacles or means of transport which may contain unaccompanied cash, in accordance with the conditions laid down in national law.
If the competent authorities believe that a consignment of cash does not comply with the regulation, they may carry out random checks or spontaneous controls whenever they deem necessary.
A declaration must contain the following information:
the origin, destination, economic provenance and intended use of the cash, as well as possible;
the name and address of the person or entity responsible for the cash; and the date and place of arrival of the consignment.
Ex officio declaration
In the event of failure to comply with these obligations, the competent authority must compose an ex officia declaration for subsequent transmission of the relevant information to other authorities. The declaration must be delivered to the declarant upon request.
EU countries must also:
ensure that the declaration contains the details of the persons or entities involved in the transport of cash, including the name, address, date and date of arrival, and the identity of the individual or entities responsible for it;
establish a common risk management framework for the exchange of information between competent authorities and with the European Commission;
provide the Commission with statistical information on its website on the number and type of unaccompanied cash that has entered or left the EU and the number of persons involved in its transport.
FROM WHEN DOES THE LEGULATION APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 July 2014.
BACKGROUND
The European Union has adopted a number of measures to combat the illicit flow of cash into and out of the EU, including:
Directive 91/308/EEC on controls on cash entering and leaving the European Union (see summary);
Regulation No 89/2005 establishing a common European Union system of cash controls;
Regulations No 45/2001 (9) and No 10/2006 (10) of the European Parliament and of the Council on the control of cash leaving the Community;
Commission Implementing Decision (EU), Euratom and Euratom Implementing Regulation (Euratom) 2018/935 on the sharing of information on the use of cash and on the protection of personal data.
For more information, see:
‘Unaccompanied Cash’ on the Euratom website.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Commission Delegated Regulations (EU: 2016/855/2014 and (EU): 2016/909
1.1.2016
2.2.2018
OJ L 127 of 28.4.2016, pp. 1-8
Amending act(s)
Entry in force:
Council Directive 91/309/EC of 26 October 2005 on the establishment of a common system of checks on the movement of cash within the Community (OJ C 309 of 25.11.2005)
See consolidated version.
RELATED ACTS
Council Regulation (CFSP) No 935/2014 of 27 June 2014 on the common European system of control on the supply and transit of cash between Member States and establishing a European Union information exchange system for the information exchange between the European Central Bank and the European Anti-Money Laundering Office (ECBANK).
Commission Decision (EURatom) 2017/1065 of 28 June 2017 on the exchange and transmission of information concerning the use and protection of the personal data of the individuals involved in transport of goods and persons in the European Economic Area (EEC: 2017/1165).
Council Decision No 1065/2013 of 28 May 2013 on the European system for information exchange on the safekeeping of cash by the European Border and Coast Guard.
Council Implementing Council Decision (



Summary 123:
Energy Union — national energy and climate plans
Energy Union: national energy plans
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) 2018/852 — energy union
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes a European energy union (EEU).
It aims to ensure that the EU’s energy security, the internal energy market, energy efficiency, decarbonisation and research, innovation and competitiveness are aligned.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to the five dimensions of the energy union:
energy security;
internal energy market;
energy efficiency;
decarbonisation; and
research, innovation, competitiveness.
EU countries must:
establish a national energy security and climate action plan for each of these five dimensions;
ensure that the national energy market and energy efficiency strategies are aligned;
develop strategies to support the development of efficient and decarbonised energy infrastructure;
cooperate with signatories to the Paris Agreement and with third-country members of the European Economic Area (EEA) and with non-EU countries.
National plans must be drawn up and updated every 5 years. They must include:
a long-term renovation strategy for the renovation of the national stock of residential and non-residential buildings, both public and private;
measures to stimulate cost-effective deep renovation and policies and actions to target the worst performing segments of the building stock, in accordance with Article 2a of Directive 2010/31/EU;
a description of measures to develop measures to utilise energy efficiency potentials of gas and electricity infrastructure.
In addition to the national plans, EU countries may also envisage cooperation with signatory to the Energy Community agreements and with other countries of the EU.
The European Commission must submit a report to the European Parliament and the Council on the implementation of the regulation by 31 December each year. This report must include information on the progress made by EU countries in implementing their national plans and the progress they have made in implementing them.
Each year, the Commission must provide the Commission with data for the preceding calendar year related to compliance with Article 7 of Directive 98/70/EC, as defined in Annex III to this Directive. The Commission must also provide the European Energy Agency (EAA) with a report on the compliance of EU countries with this directive.
Every 5 years, the EAA must present its recommendations to EU countries on how to implement their national energy strategies.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
Directive 98/71/EC entered into force on 4 November 2016.
It has applied since 1 January 2020.
BACKGROUND
The Energy Union covers five dimensions: energy security; the internal market; energy efficiency; decarbonisations; and research and innovation.
For more information, see:
‘Energy Union’ on the European Commission's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Energy Union: an energy union is defined as a set of policies, measures and actions that aim to improve the efficiency, security and competitiveness of energy systems in the European Union (EU).
* Decarbonisation: the aim of reducing the total amount of carbon dioxide emitted into the air and water.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EEU) No 852/2018 of 4 November 2018 laying down a European Energy Union (Energy Union) for the period 2018-2022 (OJ L 157, 5.11.2018, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EU, EEA) No852/18 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
   
 
Regulations (EC) No 517/2014 of the Council and of the Parliament of 11 December 2014 on the Energy Union and repealing Regulation (EC, No 518/2013 of the General Assembly and of Council of the Union (O J L 338, 28.12.2014, pp 1-2)
Regulating (EC), No 1099/2008 and (EU), No 521/2008 on the Green Deal and repealing Council Regulation (EG) No 525/2013 on the Renewable Energy Fund and repealing Directives 2003/87/EC and 2004/13/EC (Oj L 246, 28, 28 and 29.7.2008, pp 34-37)
See consolidated version.
Regulatory (EU)(EU) 2017/849 of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland establishing a European Green Deal (Green Deal) (Official Journal C 202, 29.6.2017, p. 1)
Commission Implementing Decision (EEA) 2019/848 of 27 November 2019 on the establishment of a European green deal (Official J L 347, 29 and 30.11.-30.2019, pp 2-3)
Directives 2003 and 2004 of the Central European Parliament, the Council, the European Council and



Summary 124:
Regulation (EC) No 852/2014 on the control of chemicals and their storage in EU countries (recast)
Recast of Regulation (EC, EC, EC) No 1888/2006 on the controls on chemicals and its storage
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out the rules for the control and management of chemical stockpiles* in the European Union (EU).
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to all substances listed in the Convention and in the Protocol as well as substances listed only in the convention.
It does not apply to chemicals listed in Annex II to the Convention on the Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH).
EU countries must:
monitor the use, management and storage of notified stockpiles of chemicals;
ensure that these stockpiles comply with the regulation’s rules;
establish a European Chemicals Agency (ECA) to monitor their use and management;
take appropriate measures to prevent, control and restrict the use of chemicals in their stockpiles.
Exemptions from control measures
Certain substances are excluded from the regulation, such as:
tetrabromodiphenyl ether (TPDD);
chlorinated biphenyls (CPDDs);
cyclic aromatic hydrocarbons;
dioxins;
nitrous oxide.
The European Commission is responsible for monitoring the use and managing the stockpiles and the control measures.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULCELEBRATION APPLACE?
   
It has applied since 16 July 2014.
BACKGROUND
It repeals Regulation (EU) No 850/2004 (see summary).
It applies from 16 July 2021.
For more information, see:
Chemical control measures (European Commission).
MAIN DOCUMENT
 
Regulation(EC, EEC, Euratom) No 88/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 December 2006 concerning the control, management, monitoring and restriction of certain substances and their stocks in the Member States (Recast) (OJ L 396, 30.12.2006, pp. 1-21)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EEC, EFTA) No 1988/2006 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
 EU Implementing Decision (EU, EU) 2018/852 of the Court of Justice of the EU on the application of the Treaty on European Union on the Union and on the registration, evaluation, authorisation and restrictions on the import, export and import of certain hazardous substances and on their storage and use (COM(2018) 596 final, 16.3.2018)
Regulations (EC), EEA, EEA and EEA of European Parliament, Council and Commission of 11 June 2018 on the establishment of a European Chemical Safety Agency (EASA) and repealing Council Regulation No 793/93 and Commission Regulations (EC and EC) 1488/94 and Commission Regulation No 1498/94 as well and Commission Directives 76/769/EEC and 2001/18/EC (EC).
See consolidated version.
Commission Implementing Directive (EU), EU, EU, EC and EC of 11 July 2018 establishing the European Chemical Safety Agency and repealing Regulation No 892/2004 and Commission Directive 2001/17/EC and Commission Implementing Regulation No 596/2004.
last update 16.01.2021



Summary 125:
Single-use plastic products: placing on the market and reducing their impact on the environment (SUMMARY OF:
Directive 2019/30/EU on the placing on market and reduction of plastic waste
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DIRECTIVE?
It aims to reduce the number of plastic products found on European Union (EU) beaches and fishing gear containing plastic and products made from oxo-degradable plastic.
KEY POINTS
The directive applies to all plastic products that are found the most on beaches in the EU. It does not apply to fishing gear, food intended for young children, food for infants and food for the environment.
EU countries must:
ban the placing of these products on their market and the reduction measures taken;
monitor the consumption of such products;
ensure that these measures are effective, proportionate and dissuasive;
establish a system of extended producer responsibility* for these products.
The European Commission must carry out an evaluation of the directive by 3 July 2027. It must also report to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the European Commission on the progress made by EU countries in implementing the directive.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS DIRECTIVE APPLY?
From 3 July 2019. EU countries had to incorporate it into national law by 3.7.2019.
BACKGROUND
The EU is the world’s largest exporter of plastic. It is also the largest consumer of plastic and the largest plastic producer in the world over. This means that it is responsible for the most of the plastic that ends up on EU beaches.
It is found on the European seas.
This directive aims to tackle the problem of plastic litter by:
restricting the use of plastic on beaches;
reducing the amount of plastic used in fishing gear;
introducing measures to reduce plastic waste.
For more information, see:
‘Plastic on the EU’ on the Commission's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Single-use product: a plastic product that is not designed for re-use or cost-effective recycling and which is not intended for reuse or recycling.
** Fishing gear: a fishing gear made from plastic and which contains plastic or is made of plastic or made of other substances that are not designed to be re-used or cost effective.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Directive 2019/29/EU of 3 June 2019 on the putting on the Market and the Reduction of Single-Use Plastic Waste (SOLUTIONS) (OJ L 157, 3.6.2019, pp. 1-18)
RELATED DOCUMENTS
 
   கற  
Commission Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006 of 3 July 2006 establishing a system for the collection, analysis and reporting of data and information on plastic waste (Official Journal L 365 of 31.12.2006)
Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 609/2013 of the European European Parliament and of the Council of 6 June 2013 on the reduction of food for special diet for infants, children and young children (Official J L 181, 6.6-7.2013)
See consolidated version.
last update 04.02.2022



Summary 126:
EU trade mark registration and enforcement — rules for the Office for the Registration of EU Trade Marks (OJ L 347, 28.11.2016, pp. 1-8)
EU trade sign registration and enforceability — rules on the registration, enforcement and enforcement of EU trade marks (Joint Regulation (EU) No 182/2011)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 181/2011 laying down the rules and implementing acts for the registration of the EU trade mark
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It lays down rules on how the European Union Trade Marks Office (OLAF) works.
It aims to ensure that trade marks are protected and enforceable throughout the EU.
KEY POINTS
The regulation sets out the rules for:
the registration of a trade mark;
the enforcement of the trade mark and the enforcement of its enforcement;
rules on the application for a licence to use an EU Trade Mark.
The rules apply to the following types of goods and services:
goods and services for which the applicant has applied:
a trade mark conferred on a person or a business;
an application for an exclusive or non-exclusive licence;
any other goods or services conferred on the applicant.
Application procedure
The applicant must submit an application to the OLAF. The application must be accompanied by a declaration of division. The declaration must contain the following information:
an indication of the goods and/or services concerned;
a description of the name of the person or business concerned.
the name and address of the applicant’s place of business.
If the applicant fails to fulfil the conditions of the application, the applicant must lodge a complaint with the Office of the European Parliament and the Council. The Office then decides whether to accept or reject the complaint. If it rejects the claim, it must inform the applicant of the reasons for its decision. If the applicant is unable to prove its case, it may lodge an appeal before the Board of Appeal of the Office, which decides on the appeal. The appeal may be brought before the Court of Justice of the Union or before the European Court of Auditors.
When an application is rejected, the Office must notify the owner of any deficiencies in the application. If a deficiency is not remedied within a period to be specified by the office, the office may reject the claim. If, however, the deficiency is rectified within a specified period, the application may be renewed.
In the event of a dispute over the validity of an application, a dispute resolution procedure may be followed. The dispute resolution process may include oral proceedings before the Office. The losing party must bear the costs for one opposing party only and, where applicable, one representative only.
Cancellation procedures
The Office may decide to cancel an application if it considers that the application is invalid. The cancellation takes effect from the day following the date on which the existing registration expired. The decision may also be made by the Executive Director of the office. The office may also decide to suspend an application for renewal if the applicant does not comply with the conditions laid down in the regulation or if the application has not been properly investigated.
Examiners
The OLAF has a number of tasks, including:
examiners;
examination of the applications;
cancelling the application;
drawing up the register;
clearing up any errors in the registration;
keeping the register for an indefinite period of time;
checking that the registration has been complied with;
disseminating the results of the examination and the publication of the registration.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
It entered into force on 1 January 2016.
BACKGROUND
The EU Trade Trademark Office has been in operation since 2004.
For more information, see:
EU Trade Marks — Register (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Trade mark: any trade mark that has been registered in the EU and which has been conferred on one or more products or services.
* Exemptions: a trademark which is not used for the purpose of marketing, advertising or promotional purposes.
ACT
Commission Implementing Act (EC) No 184/2011 of 27 December 2011 laying down rules and establishing procedures for the establishment, enforcement, registration, cancellation and enforcement, as well as for the transfer of an EU trademark (codified version) and repealing Council Regulation (Euratom) (Official Journal L 183, 29.12.2011).
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Commission Delegated Act (EU).
-
OJ C 202, 27.12 of 27.2011.
Last updated: 22.05.2016



Summary 127:
Accessible formats for copyright and related rights
Assistance for persons with disabilities
Accessibility for persons who are blind, visually impaired or otherwise print-disabled
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) 2017/1564 on the making and dissemination of copies, in accessible formats, of certain works and other subject matter
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It requires contracting parties to provide for exceptions or limitations to copyright or related rights in order to make and disseminate accessible formats for certain works, other protected subject matter and for the cross-border exchange of those copies.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to:
books, audio books, e-books, radio broadcasts and radio broadcasts.
It does not apply to films or television programmes.
Distribution, communication and making available of accessible format copies
The distribution, communication or making available to the public of accessible formats in an EU country must be carried out on a non-profit basis by authorised entities established in that EU country.
Authorised entities must ensure that:
the content of the accessible format copy is in a language easily understood by people with disabilities;
the authorisation has been granted by the competent authority of the EU country in which it is to be made;
authorised entities are responsible for ensuring that the content is in an accessible format.
The authorisation must also be granted for:
accessibility of the authorisation;
transmission of the authorised format copy;
exchange of the adapted e-book, audio book or radio broadcast between authorised entities in the EU and in non-EU countries.
Exceptions or limitations
Authorisations may not restrict the accessibility of a work, subject matter or authorisation to persons who:
are blind or visually impaired;
have a disability; or
are unable to read or write.
Import and use
A beneficiary person or an authorised entity established in a EU country may import or otherwise obtain or access and thereafter use, in accordance with the national legislation adopted pursuant to Directive (EU, 2017/564) and Directive 2001/29/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 July 2002 concerning the processing of personal data and the protection of privacy in the electronic communications sector (Directive on privacy and electronic communications).
Exemptions and limitations
An authorised entity may only import, communicate or make available to a person who is:
visual impaired or visually blind;
print-disabled;
aroused or partially sighted.
In addition, the authorising authority may not prohibit the import or use of:
a work or subject matter that has been distributed, communicated or made available to beneficiary persons or to authorised entities;
an authorised entity in a third country that is a party to the Marrakesh Treaty;
accessible format copies that have been distributed or communicated to a public or to a private organisation.
Obligations of authorised entities
Authorisation entities must:
ensure that the authorisations granted for the making or dissemination of the accessible format copy are respected;
take the necessary measures to ensure that the accessibility of these copies is not affected by copyright or other related rights;
develop guidelines or best practices on making and disseminating these accessible formats.
EU countries must provide the European Commission with the necessary information for the preparation of an evaluation report.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 January 2018.
BACKGROUND
 
  * KEY TERMS
* Accessible format: a format in which a person with a disability is able to read, write or listen to a written or audiovisual message.
* Authorised entity: a company or organisation that has the legal right to make or disseminate a copy of a protected work or a subject matter.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Commission Implementing Regulation (EC) No 552/2017
1.1.2018
-
OJ L 127 of 1.2.2018, pp. 1-8
See consolidated version.
last update 04.02.2021



Summary 128:
Coordinated investigation and enforcement of infringements in the EU — EU consumer protection rules
COORDINATED INVESTIGATION AND ENFORCE MECHANISMS
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) 2018/852 — coordinated investigation and implementation of the European Union’s consumer protection law
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to ensure that EU countries’ competent authorities investigate and enforce infringements that affect consumers.
It sets out rules on coordinated investigations and enforcement.
KEY POINTS
EU countries must:
cooperate in investigating and enforcing infringements with a European Union dimension;
coordinate their enforcement actions with other EU countries and the European Commission;
ensure that their enforcement priorities are aligned with those set out in the regulation.
The European Commission is responsible for coordinating the enforcement activities of the competent authorities, other public authorities referred to in Article 6 and, if applicable, designated bodies, in relation to infringements covered by this regulation. The Commission is also responsible for the coordination of the enforcement actions of the EU countries.
Each EU country must establish a single liaison office to coordinate the investigation, enforcement and training of its officials involved in the application of the regulation, as well as the development of sector-specific networks of officials. The liaison office must also be responsible for translating the notifications, communications and other documents that it receives from other competent authorities.
Inspections and enforcement actions must be coordinated with the Commission. Where investigations reveal that an infringement might be taking place, EU countries must start the coordinated action by taking the necessary measures. If an EU-wide investigation reveals that such an infringement, they must take the necessary steps to take the appropriate enforcement measures.
If an infringement is taking place with an EU dimension, the EU country concerned must inform the Commission of its decision. The European Commission must then inform the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions of the measures taken to tackle the infringement.
When an EU country takes the necessary action to tackle an infringement with a Union dimension, it must notify the Commission and the other countries concerned.
Where an infringement takes place with a global dimension, a coordinated enforcement action must be taken by the Commission with the help of other EU country authorities. The enforcement action should be coordinated by the European Anti-Fraud Office (EAFO).
The Commission must notify each EU country of its enforcement priorities within 2 years of the submission of information on enforcement priorities and inform other countries and EU countries accordingly. In cases involving a substantial change of circumstances or of market conditions during the 2 years after the last submission, the enforcement priorities must be updated.
A database containing information on infringements must be established for the purpose of collecting, classifying and exchanging data on consumer complaints. It must be accessible to all EU countries, the Commission, the EAFO and other designated bodies.
Information may also be communicated to an authority of a non-EU country by a competent authority under a bilateral assistance agreement with that country, provided that the approval of the authority that originally communicated the information has been obtained, and provided that it is in accordance with EU law regarding the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data.
An EU country may also communicate information to a third country if it considers that the information it receives is necessary for its own investigation or enforcement. However, those entities must not have access to that database.
FROM WHEN DOES THE REGULE APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 January 2019.
BACKGROUND
 
  *   * * 
For more information, see:
EU consumer protection (European Commission).
MAIN DOCUMENT
  [Official Journal L 165 of 18.6.2018]
Council Regulation (EC) No 1852/2018 of 21 December 2018 on the coordinated investigation of consumer protection infringements (OJ L 165, 18.5.2018, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EU, Euratom) No1852/18 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
  —
Communication from the Commission to the Council and European Parliament: Implementing Regulation (Euratom) 2017/853 on the implementation of Directive 2009/22/EC (Directive on consumer ADR) (COM(2017) 696 final, 28.3.2017)
Communications from the European Council and the Commission on the application by the Member States of Directive 2013/11/EU on alternative dispute resolution for consumer disputes and amending Regulations (EC, EC) No 2006/2004 and (EC), 2009/23/EC and (EU), 2009 and 2013/24/EC on the enforcement of consumer complaints and on the exchange of information and communication tools.
Commission Implementing Decision 2014/856/EU of 28 June 2014



Summary 129:
In vitro diagnostic medical devices: European Union rules on safety and health
In vitro diagnostics: EU rules on safe and sustainable regulation
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 552/2014 on the safety and quality of medical devices
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes a European Union (EU)-wide regulatory framework for in vitro diagnostic* medical devices.
It aims to ensure that in vitro medical devices* are safe and safe, while supporting innovation.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to all medical devices, including:
in vitro diagnostic devices* for the diagnosis and monitoring of human diseases;
diagnostic medical devices for the monitoring and testing of human and animal health;
medical devices used to diagnose, monitor, monitor or monitor the health of animals;
electromagnetic devices* used to monitor the human body’s immune system.
Manufacturers must:
conduct a safety and clinical performance evaluation, including a performance evaluation report;
conduct an ethical review;
ensure that their products comply with the requirements laid down in the regulation.
The European Medicines Agency (EMA) is responsible for ensuring that manufacturers, distributors and economic operators comply with these requirements.
EU countries must ensure that manufacturers and distributors cooperate with the competent authorities on any action taken to eliminate the risks posed by devices which they have made available on the market.
Distributors must cooperate with competent authorities, at their request, on any actions taken to reduce the risks to the health and safety of their customers.
Imporporters must ensure their products are labelled as single-use devices and that they have been sterilised and packaged in a way that minimises the need for sterilisation before use. They must also ensure that their devices are labelled in a language that is easily understood by consumers.
Regulators must ensure the following information is available to the public:
the name or trade name of the device;
the device version or model;
labelled as single use;
packaged sterile;
quantity of devices provided in a package;
required for sterilization before use; and
critical warnings or contra-indications.
Evaluation and conformity assessment
The manufacturer must carry out an assessment of the devices’ safety, clinical and technical performance, including an evaluation report, and submit a report to the competent authority. The report must contain a summary of the results of the evaluation and a description of the products’ design, manufacture, design, testing and testing methods, as well as of the risks associated with their use.
An electronic system for registration of economic operators must be in place to ensure the proper functioning of the electronic system. The regulation sets out the structure, responsibilities, procedures, processes and management resources required to implement the principles and actions necessary to achieve compliance with the provisions of this regulation. It also sets out a list of the economic operators that must be involved in the supply chain.
A European Union database on medical devices must be established. This database must be updated every 5 years to reflect technological developments in the medical devices market. It must also be updated to reflect the technological progress that has taken place since the regulation came into force.
In addition, the regulation sets up the European Union Device Identification and Traceability Database (UDI-DI). This database contains information on:
manufacturers’ products;
distributors’ devices;
devices’ labelling and labelling information;
products’ serial numbers;
procedures for their identification and traceability;
registers and certificates;
authorisations issued to manufacturers;
information on the EU-wide system for the registration and authorisation of manufacturers and their distributors.
FROM WHEN DOES IT APPLY?
Directive 2009/43/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 2009 on the harmonisation of the laws of the Member States relating to the regulation on the regulation of the Safety and Quality of In vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices (see summary).
It has applied since 1 January 2011.
BACKGROUND
In 2015, the European Commission adopted Directive 2009/44/EC establishing a European Medicinal Devices Directive. This Directive establishes a framework for the regulation to be implemented in line with the EU Medicines Directive.
For more information, see:
EU medical devices directive (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* In vitro diagnostic device: a medical device used to detect, monitor and monitor human or animal health.
* Single use: a device that can be used to measure the presence or absence of a specific biological or chemical substance in the blood or urine of a patient.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (Euratom) No 550/2014 of 21 December 2014 on the Safety, Quality and Labelling of Medical Devices for the Monitoring and Testing of Human and Animal Health (OJ L 347, 28.12.2014, pp. 1-8)




Summary 130:
Electrical appliances and fittings — EU rules on their conformity assessment and conformity assessment (Regulation (EU) 2018/852)
Electrical and electronic appliances and fitting — Union rules on its conformity assessment
SUMMARY OF:
Delegated Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 852/2016 on the harmonisation of the rules on the conformity assessment of electrical and electronic products
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out the rules for the harmonising of the EU’s rules on conformity assessment, conformity assessment* and conformity-assessment procedures for the sale and putting into service of electrical appliances* and electronic fittings.
It repeals Directive 2009/142/EC.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to:
electrical appliances* intended for use in residential, commercial, industrial or institutional use;
electromagnetic appliances intended for the use of heating, cooling, air conditioning or air-conditioning systems;
gas-operated household appliances intended to be placed into service.
Manufacturers must ensure that:
they have carried out a conformity assessment before placing into service any appliances or fittings on the EU market;
they carry out conformity assessment prior to putting them into service;
the conformity assessment is carried out by an authorised representative appointed by the manufacturer.
EU countries must notify the European Commission of any non-compliance with the regulation.
The Commission must, by means of implementing acts and, given their special nature, determine whether measures taken by EU countries in respect of non-compliant appliances or fittingings are justified or not.
Imporporporters and importers must inform the Commission of the name and postal address of the importer of the appliance or fitting. The Commission must then notify the manufacturer of any infringements of the regulation and notify the EU countries of any measures taken to deal with such infringements.
In addition, the Commission must:
ensure that the manufacturer, importer, dealer or any other authorised representative of the manufacturer carries out an independent conformity assessment;
conduct an audit to check that the appliance and fitting comply with the legislation;
check that the appliances are compatible with the local gas supply conditions;
carry out market surveillance and control of the products entering the EU.
If the Commission considers that a product does not conform to the regulation, it must take the necessary measures to ensure that it is withdrawn from the market or withdrawn from service. These measures may include criminal penalties for serious infringements and, where appropriate, a ban on the sale of the product.
FROM WHEN DOES THE LEGULATION APPLY?
Directive 2009/141/EC has applied since 21 April 2018.
Amending act(s)
Regulation(EU) No 1025/2012 on European standardisation, amending Council Directives 94/9/EC, 94/25/EC and 93/15/EEC and Directives 95/16/EC (see summary) and 2009/105/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Regulation (EC) No 765/2008 (See summary).
BACKGROUND
The European Commission has adopted a number of delegated acts, including:
Implementing Regulation (Euratom) 2016/853 laying down common rules for appliances, fittings and electrical equipment intended for domestic, commercial and industrial use (OJ L 183, 28.5.2016, pp. 1-8);
Implementation Regulation (EEA) No 182/2011 laying down uniform rules for household appliances, electrical equipment and electronic devices intended for public use (EEC) (EEA) (see consolidated version).
The EU has also adopted Implementing Decision (EU), which sets out common rules on:
consolidated rules for electrical appliances, electronic equipment, electrical and industrial appliances and electronic components intended for household use (EU-wide directive on the labelling and labelling of appliances, accessories and related products) (EU regulation on the certification of appliances and accessories);
EU regulation (EC, EC, EC and EC) No 652/2008 on the technical harmonisation and standards of conformity assessment procedures for electrical, electronic and industrial products intended for commercial use (EC and EC).
For more information, see:
Electromagnetic appliance and electronic equipment (European Commission).
MAIN DOCUMENT
    барканскаганка градка:
Commission Delegated Regulations (EU and Euratom):
Regulations (EU)(1) and (2) of 21 March 2016 on the Harmonisation of Regulations on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the sale, carriage and use of household appliances and electrical appliances and of electronic devices, and repealing Council Decision 87/95/EC;
Commission Implementing Decisions (EU/2014/EU) 2015/854 and (EU)* No



Summary 131:
Cross-border transport of euro cash: rules for cash-in-transit (CIT) companies
Cross-boundary transport of euros: checks for cross-border cash
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 1072/2009 — rules for the cross-bORDER transport of cash
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It lays down rules on the transport by road and by rail of euro-denominated cash in and out of the euro area.
It aims to protect the safety of the public and the economy of the European Union (EU).
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to:
cross-border deliveries/pick-ups of euros by road between EU countries;
point-to-point transport by rail;
cash transport by air;
custodial transport.
EU countries must ensure that:
the applicant company, its CIT security staff, vehicles, vehicles and security procedures employed in or applied for the purposes of crossing-border traffic comply with this regulation or, where expressly referred to in this regulation, with national law specifically relating to the transport of money;
the transport arrangements used by the applicant company comply with the relevant national rules.
The applicant company must notify the European Commission of the transport arrangements which are applicable in accordance with the regulation. The Commission must publish a corresponding information notice in the Official Journal of the EU country in which the transport is to be carried out.
In addition, EU countries must:
provide the Commission with a list of the types of transport arrangements that are covered by this regulation;
ensure that the CIT vehicle, its security staff and vehicles and the security procedures used for the purpose of transport comply with these arrangements;
identify the persons, companies and bodies responsible for carrying out these transport arrangements, as well as the persons responsible for their security.
CIT transport arrangements must be:
conform with the rules laid down in Articles 8 and 9 of Regulation (EU) 2017/852 on the harmonisation of the laws of the Member States with regard to the carriage of cash;
comply with the requirements laid down by the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions;
not exceed the number of euro deliveries or pick-ups that a CIT company may carry out in a host EU country during the same day;
cooperate with the national authorities of the other Member State in order to ensure that the cash transported complies with the law of that country;
have the necessary security measures in place to prevent, detect and neutralise any risks to human health and the environment;
be able to take advantage of the cash services of the nearest national central bank (NCB) branch or CIT cash centre, even if it is located in another Member State.
Security measures must be in place at all stages of transport, including:
before, during and after the transport;
before the start of the journey;
after the end of the trip;
in the event of an accident;
during the journey.
There must be at least two security staff per vehicle.
National authorities must ensure the following:
that:
each CIT transport vehicle has at least one security staff;
there are at least 2 security staff in each vehicle;
each security staff has a valid professional weapons licence or authorisation issued by the country where the applicant’s employer is established;
at least 1 security staff is authorised to carry out the transport, and at least 3 security staff must be authorised to operate the vehicle, and there must be a minimum number of security staff.
If a security staff does not have a licence, it must be validated by the competent authority of the country of the host country.
A security staff may be authorised only if he or she has been trained in the relevant professional weapons training in the Member State where the employer has its head office.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
From 1 January 2010.
BACKGROUND
The European Commission published a communication on the implementation of the regulation in December 2009.
For more information, see:
Euro cash transport (European Commission).
* KEY TERMS
* Cross-borders: a transport route where cash is transported between two or more EU countries by road or rail.
* Euro cash transport: a means of transport in which cash is delivered or picked-up.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (Euratom) No 1108/2009 of 15 December 2009 on the cross border transport of Euro cash (codified version) (OJ L 183, 1.1.2010, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EC, Euratom) no 1108 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
Council Decision 2009/856/EC of



Summary 132:
Foods — mandatory nutrition information (2014-2020)
Foods— mandatory nutrition Information (2014 - 2020)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 608/2004 on mandatory food information
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out rules on the mandatory labelling and labelling of foods in the European Union (EU).
It aims to ensure that the information contained in the nutrition declaration on foods is clearly visible, understandable and understandable.
It also aims to encourage food business operators to provide on a voluntary basis the information that may be omitted from the declaration.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to:
foods with a maximum weight of more than 100 g;
alcoholic beverages and non-prepacked foods that may not be exempted from the regulation’s requirements;
non-foods that are not intended for human consumption.
The European Commission must submit reports to the European Parliament and the Council every 3 years on the implementation of the regulation.
EU countries must indicate the country of origin or place of provenance of the food they produce or the place of origin for:
meat other than beef;
milk, milk used as an ingredient in dairy products;
unprocessed foods;
processed food;
single ingredient products; and single ingredient products containing more than 50 % of a food.
In addition, food businesses must provide the following information:
the number of grams of protein, carbohydrate, fat, protein, protein and carbohydrate;
the quantity of fat, carbohydrate and protein;
a description of the composition of the ingredients;
an indication of the type of meat and the quantity of protein or carbohydrate.
Food businesses must also provide information on:
total carbohydrate content
the amount of protein in a product
the percentage of carbohydrate in a food
the total number of protein grams and carbohydrate content of a product.
Exemptions
Certain foods may be excluded from the definition of ‘mechanically separated meat’ and ‘milk’.
There are also certain foods which are exempt from the requirement of the declaration, such as:
alcohol,
alcohol and alcoholic beverages
wholly processed foods
alcohol-free foods
whole-grain foods
pre-packaged foods
food with added phytosterols
phytosterol esters, phytostanols or phytosanoids
polyphenols
polyglycerols
glyceryl esters
polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons
polymer esters and polyphenols.
Certain food businesses may also provide the information in Annex V to the regulation on the quantity and composition of vitamins, minerals and other substances.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
Directive (EU) 2018/852 amends Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 652/2004. It repeals Directive 87/250/EEC.
BACKGROUND
The EU has adopted a number of rules on food labelling. These include:
rules on the labelling, packaging and presentation of foods, including rules on labelling (see summary);
rules for labelling alcoholic beverages, non-alcoholic drinks, foodstuffs, food additives and food additives;
rules to ensure the consistency of labelling on foods.
For more information, see:
‘Food labelling’ on the European Commission's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Mechanically separated: a product is separated from other products by means of a mechanical separator.
MAIN DOCUMENT
   
  бранска грака (OJ L 81, 13.3.2014, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EJ L 82, 14.2.2018, have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 04.02.2021



Summary 133:
Issuing of euro coins and collector coins
Issuance and circulation coins and collectors coins
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 974/98 on the introduction of the euro
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It lays down the rules for the issuing and circulation of euro and cent coins.
It aims to ensure that euro coins are legal tender in all EU countries whose currency is the euro.
KEY POINTS
EU countries may only issue two types of euro coin: circulation coins* and commemorative coins*.
The circulation coins must be issued and put into circulation at face value. They must comply with the denominations and technical specifications laid down by the European Central Bank (ECB).
Collector coins must have the status of legal tender only in the issuing EU country.
The European Commission must conduct an impact assessment on the continued issuance of 1- and 2-cent coins. The Commission must also take all appropriate measures to discourage the use of collector coins as a means of payment.
Each EU country must issue two commemororative coins per year, save where:
commemorative coins are collectively issued by all the EU countries; or
a commemorative coin is issued on the occasion of a temporary vacancy or a provisional occupation of the function of Head of State.
In addition, each EU country may issue up to 2,000,000 euro collector coins, subject to certain conditions:
the number of coins to be issued must be approved by the ECB;
the quantity of coins must not exceed 10 million;
they must be valid for a maximum of 5 years.
collector
collectors must be informed of the volume of coins they are authorised to issue.
the amount of coins authorised for circulation must be submitted to the ECB for approval.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLACE?
The regulation has applied since 20 June 2012.
BACKGROUND
The euro is the single currency of the European Union (EU).
For more information, see:
‘The euro’ on the European Commission’s website.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EU) No 1082/2012 of 26 June 2012 laying down rules on the issuance and circulation* and collector* coins and on the legal tender status of these coins in the Member States.
Successive amendments and corrections to Regulation (Euratom) No 1108/2012 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
Council Decision 2013/852/EU of 27 May 2013 on the issue of euro commemorary coins and of euro circulation coins (Official Journal C 273 of 16.5.2013).
Council Directive 2013/743/EU on the circulation of coins and the legal troy ounces of euro-denominated collector coins and repealing Council Directive 2003/8/EC (Official J L 347 of 30.6.2013, pp. 1-2)
See consolidated version.
Directive 2013/13/EU, adopted by the Council on the harmonisation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to the euro and the euro cent, amends Council Regulations (EC, EEC, Euratom, ECB, ECJ and ECJ C 273/2011 and (OJ L 273, 16.9.2011, p. 1) and (J L 347, 30.11.2013)
Council Directives 2013/12/EU and 2013/11/EC of the Council and the European Parliament of 22 May 2013 laying down the conditions under which the euro is to be introduced and repealing Directives 2003/9/EC, 2003/10/EC and 2003/742/EEC and Council Directives 2002/943/EC as regards the circulation and collector coin and Council Directive 2002/844/EC.
Council Delegated Regulation of 22 June 2013 on circulation coins, amending Council Regulation (EC and EEC), repealing Council Regulations 2001/848/EC on the euro, 2001/955/EC in relation to the issue and legal tender of coins, and 2002/746/EC concerning the circulation coin and the collector coin.
last update 04.01.2016



Summary 134:
European Social Fund (ESF) — Youth Employment Initiative (YEI)
European Society for the Improvement of Employment and Inclusion (ESI) – Youth Employment and Integration
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 on the European Social Fund
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out the ESF’s role in the youth employment and inclusion (YEI) programme.
KEY POINTS
The ESF is the main source of funding for social policy in the European Union (EU). Its main objective is to support the social inclusion of young people in the labour market. This is achieved by:
promoting equal opportunities between men and women;
supporting young people not in employment, education or training (NEET), who are unemployed or inactive;
encouraging young people to take part in the economy and society.
The regulation sets out specific rules for the implementation of ESF funding for the YEI, including:
programming arrangements;
participation of EU countries in the programme;
promotion of gender equality;
coordination between EU countries and the European Commission;
monitoring and evaluation of the operational programmes;
transnational cooperation.
Programming arrangements may take one or more of the following forms:
a dedicated operational programme, a dedicated priority axis within an operational programme or a part of one of the priority axes;
a part of a transnational cooperation programme involving at least two EU countries.
the European Commission is involved in the preparation, implementation and monitoring of the programmes.
EU countries may also choose to participate in transnational programmes involving partners from non-EU countries, such as the United Kingdom (1), Ireland (1) and the United States (1).
The European Commission and the EU countries are responsible for monitoring and evaluating the programmes and the results of the operations.
Information and communication measures
The annual implementation reports and the final report as referred to in Article 50(1 and (2) and (3) of the regulation must include additional information on the implementation. The Commission must attend the European Parliament's annual debate on those reports.
In addition, the Commission must:
report annually on the progress made in implementing the programme and on the results achieved;
provide a report on the impact of the programme on employment and inclusiveness;
present a report every 2 years on the effectiveness of the implementation and results achieved.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULATIONS APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 January 2014.
BACKGROUND
The EU’S social policy objectives are set out in the EU budget. The ESF contributes to these objectives by providing financial support to the social partners and the public authorities.
For more information, see:
European social policy (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
 
  * Youth Employment & Inclusion: a programme that aims to improve the quality of life for young people and young people's families. It is designed to support, in particular, young people who are excluded from employment or training, but also young persons not in education, training or employment, who are inactive or unemployed.
* Gender: the number of women and men who are actively involved in society and who have a positive impact on the economy.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Commission Decision 2014/852/EU
1.1.2014
-
OJ L 136 of 1.2.2014, pp. 1-2
Amending act(s)
Council Decision (EU, Euratom) 2015/856 of 27 November 2015 on the evaluation of implementation of the European social fund (OJ C 202 of 27.11.2015, pp 1-3)
See consolidated version.
last update 04.02.2016



Summary 135:
Population and vital events — EU countries’ annual statistics
Statistics and statistics on population
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 — annual demographic statistics
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out the rules for the collection and transmission of national and regional statistics on the EU’s population.
KEY POINTS
EU countries must provide the European Commission (Eurostat) with data on their population and on vital events during the reference period (2013-2027).
The data cover the following variables:
live births by sex, month of occurrence, live birth-order, age, country of birth, region of residence, nationality and country of citizenship;
deaths by age, sex, year of birth.
The reference period for vital events data must be the calendar year in which the events occurred.
Each EU country must use the same population definition that they use for the data referred to in paragraph 1.
Eurostat must carry out feasibility studies on the use of the definition of ‘usual residence’ for population and for the estimation of the ‘usually resident resident’ population. The results of these studies must be sent to the Economic and Financial Affairs Committee of the European Parliament and of the Council of the EU, which assesses the long-term sustainability and quality of public finances on the basis of population projections produced by Eurostat.
Every 2 years, Eurostat must publish a report on the quality and comparability of the data it receives from EU countries. The first report covers the population and the last report covers vital events. The report must also cover the first reference date and the year ending in 2027.
In order to ensure the comparability, EU countries must ensure that the data they provide to Eurostat are based on the same reference date or period and refer to the same references.
Data and metadata
The Commission must make available to the European Statistical System System (ESSSS) the data and metadata required under this regulation in accordance with the data exchange standards specified by the Commission. The data must cover:
the number of live births and deaths;
the total number of deaths; and
the average number of legal residents of a specific geographical area (i.e. those who have lived in their place of usual residence for a continuous period of at least 12 months before the reference time; or
those who arrived in the EU country with the intention of staying there for at least one year.
National authorities must ensure the quality of data transmitted and the confidentiality of personal data in the context of this regulation.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULATIONS APPLY?
   
It applies from 1 January 2013. EU countries had to incorporate it into national law by 31 December 2013.
BACKGROUND
 
The European Union has adopted a number of measures to encourage the development of sustainable development. These include:
a sustainable development strategy (Sustainable Development Strategy of the Union, launched by the European Council in Gothenburg in 2001 and renewed in June 2006);
the European Pillar of Social Rights (EPSR), which aims to improve the living conditions of EU citizens;
a European Union budget for the period 2014-2020.
Annual demographic statistics are fundamental for the study and definition of a wide range of policies, with particular regard to social and economic issues.
For more information, see:
‘Annual population statistics’ on Eurostat's website.
* KEY TERMS
* ‘Migration’: the number of people who are legally resident in an EU country and who have the right to live in that country for a given period of time. The term ‘migration‘ is used to describe the movement of people from one EU country to another. It is defined in the annex to the regulation as the total population of EU countries over a given reference period. The reference period is defined as the period between 1 December 2013 and 31 December 2027, with the exception of the reference periods for births, deaths and deaths, which are defined in terms of the NUTS classification (see summary).
*‘Vital events: events that have a direct impact on the population of a country or region.’ These refer to deaths or births that occur in the territory of the country or regions in which a person is resident.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EU), Euratom, Euratom and the European Economic and Social Committee of 21 December 2011 on the collection, transmission and dissemination of national demographic statistics (OJ L 283, 31.12.2011, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (Euratom, ESSR, EESR and EFSR have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
Council Decision (EC) No 552/2009 of 27 June 2009 on the implementation of Regulation (



Summary 136:
Labelling of non-textile parts of animal origin on the labelling or marking of textile products containing animal fibres and fibres with antistatic effect (Regulation (EC) No 552/2010)
Labelling and marking of non–textile part of animal origins on the market
Labels and marking on the sale and marketing of textile product containing non–animal origin
SUMMARY OF:
Delegated Regulation (EU) 2018/852 — labelling and labelling of textile parts of non‐textile origin
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out the rules for labelling, marking and marketing textile products with non-animal origin.
It aims to ensure that consumers can make informed choices when buying textile products.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to:
wool, cotton, polyamide, polyester, elastomultiester, cotton cordage, rope, cordage and ropes used in mountaineering and water sports;
cotton, wool and polyamide;
polyamide and polylactide used for the production of cordages, ropes and cordages.
The textiles covered by the regulation must be clearly labelled on the label or on the packaging.
Textile products must not contain:
non-animal fibres or fibres that are not fibres intended for use in clothing;
fibres intended to be used in the manufacture of clothing, such as wool, cotton or polyamide.
Decorative fibres used in textiles intended for the making of clothing or for the decoration of clothing.
Cotton, cotton and cotton cordages and ropes falling within the scope of the regulation may not be labelled as such.
Non–animal fibre may also be labelled in accordance with the regulation’s Annex II.
In addition, the regulation sets out methods for determining the nitrogen content of jute and certain animal fibre. These methods are based on the composition of the mixture of the fibre and the percentage of animal fibre in the clean dry specimen. The results of these methods are expressed as a percentage of the dry mass of the specimen.
A number of methods are available for the analysis of these results. These include:
methods by determining nitrogen content;
method by determining the quantity of cellulose and cellulose-containing fibres.
Methods by determining cellulose content.
Method by determining gelatin content. This method is based on:
the percentage of gelatinous fibres in the mixture;
the number of fibres per 100 grams of cotton; and
the quantity of elastomeric fibres (e.g. elastomers) per 100 g of cotton.
Rights and responsibilities of the European Commission
The Commission has the power to adopt delegated acts, subject to the conditions laid down in this regulation, in order to implement the delegated acts.
FROM WHEN DOES THE LEGULATION APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 July 2018.
BACKGROUND
 
  The regulation is one of a series of legislative acts adopted by the European Parliament and the Council to ensure uniform rules for the marketing of textiles. The other legislative acts are:
Directive 2010/13/EC on textile labelling (see summary);
Regulation 2010/11/EU on the marking of products made from textile fibres, including textile products intended for clothing and accessories;
Council Directive 2010/12/EC establishing a European Union Agency for Textile Labelling and Labelling of Textiles.
For more information, see:
Textiles (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Non-animal fibre: any part of a fibre other than the fibre itself.
* Cellulose: any fibre other than that of the fibre itself. It may consist of cotton, cotton wool or cotton rope.
** Elastomers: fibres other than cotton. They are fibres which have a non-toxic effect. They may be used to make clothing or accessories.
MAIN DOCUMENT
  [Official Journal L 347 of 20.10.2018].
Successive amendments to Regulation (EJ L 347 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 14.02.2021



Summary 137:
European Maritime and Fisheries Fund (EMFF) — objectives and structure
European Maritime & Fisheries Fund
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 1380/2013 establishing the European Maritime and fisheries Fund
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out the EMFF’s objectives and its structure.
KEY POINTS
The EMFF aims to:
support sustainable economic growth, employment, innovation and new technologies in the fishery and aquaculture sectors;
encourage innovative approaches to create growth and jobs, in particular by adding value to fishery products and diversifying the local economy towards new economic activities, including those offered by ‘blue growth’ and the broader maritime sectors.
To achieve these objectives, the EU provides financial support for:
fisheries;
aquaculture;
business start–up;
the implementation of the common fisheries policy (CFP);
the monitoring and enforcement of the CFP.
Funding
The EU provides support for the following activities:
increased fishing capacity;
fishing for sustainable and selective fishing;
development of new fishing vessels;
improvement of fishing infrastructure;
enhancing the capacity of existing fishing vessels.
Support
The European Union provides financial assistance for the development of fishing vessels and for the establishment of new ones.
Fisheries
Support may be granted for the construction of a new fishing vessel or for the renovation of existing vessels. It may also be provided for the improvement of the fishing infrastructure of a fishing port.
Aquaculture
EU support may be given for the increase in production and/or modernisation of existing aquacultural enterprises, or for new ones, provided that the development is consistent with the multiannual national strategic plan for the sustainable development of aquaquulture.
Sustainable economic growth
Support can be granted to the following sectors:
seafood production;
seaweed production and processing;
industrial fishing.
In addition, the European Union may provide financial support to the establishment, development and operation of research and development centres.
Business start-up
Support for business start-ups may only contribute to the acquisition of the first fishing vessel and to the training of a professional fisherman. The trainee must be accompanied on board by an experienced professional fisherman of at least 50 years of age.
Eligible operating costs
The following costs are considered to be eligible operating costs:
the salary costs of personnel of national administrations;
operational costs of vessels and equipment;
costs of equipment and spare parts.
EU control, inspection and enforcement systems
EU financial support is available to comply with the implementation of a Union control, inspections and enforcement system.
The Commission may adopt delegated acts to adopt implementing acts in accordance with the advisory procedure set out in Article 127(2) of the regulation.
Monitoring and enforcement
EU funds may be used to monitor and enforce the rules of the Common Fisheries Policy.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
The regulation has applied since 31 December 2013.
BACKGROUND
The CFP has been in operation since 2004 and had to become law in the EU countries by 2004.
For more information, see:
‘The EU’ on the European Commission's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Fishery: any fishery in which there is a high risk of overfishing.
ACT
Council Regulation (EC) No 1224/2009 of 20 November 2009 establishing a Community control system for ensuring compliance with the EU fisheries policy.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Regulations
EC: No 1381/2013
31.12.2013
-
OJ L 343 of 22.12, 2011, pp. 1-8
See consolidated version.
last update 04.02.2016



Summary 138:
Investment products for retail investors — key investor information (KIS) and key information document (KICs)
Investments for retail consumers — key information and disclosure document
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 552/2014 on the disclosure of key information for retail investment products
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It lays down common standards for the disclosure and disclosure of information to retail investors of investment products.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to:
investment products designed to provide specific investment solutions tailored to the needs of retail investors;
transferable securities* for collective investment in transferable securities (UCITS);
other investment products that are combined with insurance coverage or can be complex and difficult to understand.
EU countries must ensure that:
the disclosure of the key information is accurate, fair, clear and not misleading;
it is clearly expressed and written in language and a style that facilitates the understanding of the information, in particular, in language that is clear, succinct and comprehensible.
The disclosure must:
be presented and laid out in a way that is easy to read, using characters of readable size;
focus on key information that retail investors need;
be clearly expressed, written in a language and in a format that is clearly understandable to them.
An explanatory statement must appear directly underneath the title of the disclosure document. This statement must read: ‘This document provides you with key information about this investment product.’
It must be accompanied by:
a description of the product’s features;
a summary of the products’ risks and their risks;
an explanation of how the product is designed to be managed.
a list of the investment products covered by the regulation.
the key information must be provided by the competent authorities of the EU country in which the transaction takes place.
In addition, the regulation sets out rules for the marketing of PRIIPs under an existing passport, if any. The regulation does not apply to products that have not yet been established in the EU and which are subject to a transitional period of 5 years after its entry into force.
It also applies to the sale of products which are not covered by a passport.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULTRY APPLY?
From 31 December 2014.
BACKGROUND
The European Commission has adopted a draft regulation setting out common standards to ensure that investment products are easily accessible to consumers.
For more information, see:
Investment product disclosure (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Investment product: a product that provides investment solutions designed to meet the needs and objectives of a retail investor.
* Transferable securities: a financial instrument that is intended to be traded on a regulated market.
ACT
Council Regulation (EEC) No 529/2014 of 31 October 2014 on the Disclosure of Key Information for Retail Investment Products (OJ L 183, 31.10.2014, pp. 1-2)
RELATED ACTS
Regulations (EU, Euratom) No 652/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 on the marketing and disclosure requirements for investment products and repealing Council Regulation (EC) no 652(2013) No 852/2012 (O J L 183 of 31.12.2013, pp 1-3)
Regulating (EU), Euratom No 653/2013 (OCT) No 1082/2012 of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland laying down common rules on the regulation on the European Union Investment System for Transferable Securities (EU Investment System Regulation) and repealing Directives 2009/65/EC and 2009/71/EC (Oj L 140, 30.11.2012, p. 1)
See consolidated version.
Directive 2009/72/EC of the Parliament and Council of 22 December 2009 establishing a European Union investment system for transferable assets (UCIT) (see summary).
See summary.
last update 04.02.2016



Summary 139:
Single Resolution Mechanism (SRM) — rules for the Single Supervisory Mechanism and the Single Resolution Fund (SRSM)
Single resolution Mechanism — rules governing the single resolution fund (SSM)*
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 1024/2013 on the establishment of a single resolution mechanism for European banks
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets up a single European resolution mechanism (SMS) for the European Union (EU).
It aims to provide a single, centralised resolution fund for all banks in the EU.
KEY POINTS
The SSM is the EU’s main resolution mechanism. It is designed to ensure that the resolution of failing banks is as simple as possible.
The European Central Bank (ECB) is responsible for supervising the SSM. It has the power to impose fines and periodic penalty payments on any institution or group that fails to comply with its rules. It also has the powers to authorise national authorities to exercise the power of write-down or convert relevant capital instruments.
EU countries are required to guarantee the assets and liabilities of a failing bank or group of banks. This guarantee must be sufficiently remunerated by the entity. It must also be guaranteed by the EU country in which the entity is located.
When providing a guarantee, EU countries must ensure that:
the guarantee is not less than 50% of the total assets of the entity;
the amount of the guarantee does not exceed €1.5 billion;
it is not more than €5 billion.
A single-point-of-entry or multiple-point of-entry resolution is possible, provided that the entity does not have a significant exposure to non-EU countries.
Resolution planning is carried out by the Board of Governors of the European Banking Supervisory System (ESSS). The Board must draw up a resolution plan for each of the participating EU countries. This plan must include:
a description of the assets, liabilities and assets that must be written down or converted into equity;
a list of the entities to be wound up or liquidated;
procedures to be followed when a bank fails to meet its financial obligations;
implementation of the resolution plan.
In addition, the Board must:
ensure that the ECB or national competent authorities inform the board of any measures that they require an institution or a group to take or that they take themselves pursuant to Article 16 of Regulation (EU), Article 27(1) or Article 28 or 29 of Directive 2014/59/EU, or to Article 104 of Directive 2013/36/EU.
It must also inform the European Commission of any decision imposing a fine and/or periodic penalty payment under Article 38 or 39 of the Regulation.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULATIONS APPLY?
   
It has applied since 19 August 2014.
BACKGROUND
 
 Â  Â
  барскабранскига  грака (European Commission).
MAIN DOCUMENT
 храланка бългода   парка
Council Regulation (Euratom) No 768/2013 of 19 August 2013 laying down rules for establishing a single system of resolution within the European System of Supervision for European Banks (OJ L 127, 20.8.2013, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EC) No 708/2013 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
 			
 траскога глакод  настка 
Commission Implementing Decision 2014/852/EU of 27 June 2014 on the creation of a European system of credit resolution for European banking institutions and groups and repealing Council Decision (EURO) No 852/2008 (O J L 131, 28.5.2014, pp 1-2)
Council Decision (EU, Euratom) 2015/856 of 27 May 2015 on the setting up of a Single Resolution Mechanic for European Banking Institutions and Group of European Banks and repealing Decision (EC, EURO No 856/2008)
last update 04.02.2016



Summary 140:
Noise-related operating restrictions: assessment and management of aircraft noise at EU airports (Regulation (EU) 2016/852)
Noise - management of airport noise
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation on aircraft noise management
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It lays down rules on the assessment and control of noise at airports in the European Union (EU).
It aims to ensure the effective functioning of the EU’s air transport systems and the protection of the environment.
It repeals and repeals Directive 2002/30/EC.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to aircraft such as military aircraft and aircraft undertaking customs, police and fire-fighting operations. It does not apply to:
military aircraft;
police and firefighting operations;
aircraft undertaking customs and police duties;
commercial aircraft.
EU countries must take into account the following factors:
the health and safety of local residents living in the vicinity of the airport;
environmental sustainability, including interdependencies between noise and emissions;
any direct, indirect or catalytic employment and economic effects.
Airport authorities must:
assess the impact of noise on safety, airport capacity and competition;
ensure that noise-related measures are taken to ameliorate the noise impact over the same period;
take due account of the impact on the environment and the economic impact on local residents.
The European Commission must notify the relevant authority if it finds that the process followed for the introduction of a noise restriction does not meet the requirements of the regulation.
noise assessments must be based on objective and measurable criteria common to all EU countries and should build on existing information available, such as information arising from the implementation of Directive 2001/49/EC on environmental noise (see summary).
The Commission must publish the results of these assessments and the measures taken to improve the noise situation at airports.
Aircraft operators and airports must be responsible for the management of the noise they generate at their airports. The Commission must report to the European Parliament and to the Council on the application of this regulation, including the number of aircraft and airports subject to noise restrictions.
In addition, the Commission may, on its own initiative, review the process for introducing an operating restriction within 3 months of the day on which it receives notice under paragraph 1, to review the reasons for their selection.
Where appropriate, EU countries may use cost-benefit analyses where appropriate to determine whether additional measures are necessary to reduce or eliminate the noise.
FROM WHEN DOES THE LEGULATION APPLY?
 
It applies from 13 June 2016. EU countries had to incorporate it into national law by 14 June 2021.
BACKGROUND
  
The EU has adopted a number of rules on noise management, including:
Directive 2001/50/EC — the EU Aviation Safety Agency — the rules on airport noise management;
Council Regulation (EC) No 852/2004 — the general rules on air traffic management and on noise assessment;
Commission Implementing Decision 2014/13/EU — the regulation on airport charges.
For more information, see:
‘Airport noise management’ on the European Commission's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Noise: the soundness of the air in which an aircraft is taking off or landing. It is the noise emitted by the aircraft as a result of the engine, propeller, propellers, brakes, brakes and exhaust systems of the aircraft, as well as from the aircraft itself.
MAIN DOCUMENT
  Еганска гранка (OJ L 183, 14.7.2016, pp. 1-17)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2016 /852 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
  ARTICLE
 			
Council Decision 2014-13/Euratom of 14 June 2014 on the establishment of a European Union Air Traffic Management Agency (ETMA) (Official Journal L 183 of 14.6.2014)
Commission Delegated Regulation 2014/14/EU of 13 June 2014 establishing a European Commission Air Transport Management Agency and repealing Council Regulation (EEC) 2002/29/EC of 25 June 2002 relating to the assessment, management of environmental noise at European airports and repealing Commission Regulation (2002/31/EC).
Communication from the Commission to European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions — Air traffic management at European Union airports (COM(2014) 596 final of 14 May 2014).
Commission Communication from 14 June 2015 on the implementation by the Commission of Implementing Directive 2014/23/EU on the creation of an Aviation Transport Management Authority and repealing Decision 2002/33/EC relating to airport charges and repealing Directives 2001/51/EC and



Summary 141:
Cross-border insolvency proceedings: rules for the administration of cross-border proceedings (Regulation (EU) 2019/852)
Cross-Border insolvencies: rules on the administration and supervision of transnational proceedings (Commission Regulation)
SUMMARY OF:
Delegated Regulation (EC) No 552/2017 — rules on cross-Border Insolvency Proceedings
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to improve the application of certain of the EU’s rules governing the cross‑border administration of inter-border judicial proceedings.
It sets out rules on:
the application of the European Union (EU’) law on the insolvent resolution of insolvent companies;
the coordination of proceedings between insolvent parties;
cooperation and communication between the parties involved in the proceedings;
access to information via the system of interconnection.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to:
cases where a debtor or a group of companies is subject to proceedings in different EU countries;
cases involving more than one debtor;
other proceedings where the debtor is a single person.
EU countries must ensure that:
they appoint a single insolventcy practitioner for several proceedings concerning the same debtor or for different members of a group;
they ensure that this is compatible with the rules applicable to each of the proceedings, in particular with any requirements concerning the qualification and licensing of that practitioner.
They must also ensure that the competent authorities have the necessary resources to carry out their tasks.
the regulation does not apply to proceedings that concern:
insurance undertakings;
credit institutions;
investment firms and other firms, institutions and undertakings to the extent that they are covered by Directive 2001/24/EC;
collective investment undertakings.
In addition, the regulation sets out the procedures for:
adoption of restructuring plans under national law;
procedures for the establishment of a restructuring plan;
open of group coordination proceedings; and
the establishment of secondary proceedings. In addition, EU countries may designate the specific procedure which should be relevant in this context.
The European Commission must present a report to the European Parliament, the Council and the European Economic and Social Committee on the implementation of the regulation by 27 June 2022.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULATIONS APPLY?
   
It applies from 27 June 2017. EU countries had to incorporate it into national law by 26 June 2018.
BACKGROUND
The EU has set the objective of establishing an area of freedom, security and justice. To achieve this, it has adopted a number of measures, including:
rules on the recognition and recognition of insolvenic practitioners;
rules for the exchange of information and information exchange;
a system of information exchange between EU countries.
For more information, see:
‘Transnational proceedings’ on the European Commission's website.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Directive 2001/23/EC
27.6.2001
-
OJ L 281 of 26.6 June 2001
See consolidated version.
RELATED ACTS
Council Regulation (Euratom) No 852/2013 of 27 May 2013 on the application by the Commission of the Regulation on the Administration of Cross-Border Injunctions and on the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice of the Member State in the event of a Member State having jurisdiction to open proceedings in the case of a debtor (Codified version) (OJ C 202 of 27.5.2013, pp. 1-2)
Commission Implementing Decision 2014/856/EU of 27 June 2014 laying down the rules of procedure for the opening of proceedings for the adoption of a resolution plan in respect of a company which has become insolvent (Codification of the Treaty on the Functioning of the Union) (Directive 2014/10/EU) (Official Journal C 204 of 26 June 2014) (see consolidated version).
Commission Delegated Decision (EU, Euratom) 2014/943 of 27 February 2014 laying out the rules for cooperation and communication in respect the application, on the part of the Commission, of the Regulations on the Cooperation and Communication of the Parties in the Case of a Company which becomes insolvent.
Commission Working Document 2014/743 of 26 February 2014 on the Regulation establishing a system of procedures for the implementation, on behalf of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, of Directive 2014/11/EU on the Access to Information in the Matter of the Bankruptcy of a Group of Companies (Directives 2014/13/EU and 2014/15/EU).
See summary.
last update 04.01.2020



Summary 142:
Limitation of liability for damage caused to passengers in the event of a maritime accident (Athens Convention on Insurance)
Limit of liability in the case of damage caused on board ships of Class A and Class B vessels
Limitations of liability on the liability of ship-owners and insurance companies in cases of passenger death or personal injury (Athhens Convention)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 552/2006 on the limitation of liability under the Athens Convention relating to the carriage of passengers and their luggage by sea
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It lays down rules on liability rules for passengers involved in maritime accidents.
It aims to ensure that EU countries take the necessary measures to ensure a high level of compensation for passengers.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to all domestic sea-going voyages. It does not apply to:
passenger carriage by sea within a single EU country under Article 4 of Directive 98/18/EC;
carriage by sea between EU countries on board a ship of class A;
the carriage of goods by sea under Article 3 of Directive 1998/8/EC.
EU countries may apply this regulation to all international sea-passenger voyages, including:
sea-going journeys between the EU and non-EU countries;
international voyages;
sea voyages between the European Economic Area (EEA) and the United Kingdom (1) and Iceland, Norway, Liechtenstein, Switzerland, Norway and Iceland;
voyages to and from the United States, Iceland and Norway.
international sea voyages to, from, or within, the EU.
The insurance arrangements required under the regulation must take account of the financial means of the insurance companies. Insurance must be provided for in accordance with the convention’s rules.
Insurance must cover:
death or injury to a passenger caused by any of the risks referred to in paragraph 2.2 of the convention;
damage caused by ionising radiations from or contamination by radioactivity from nuclear fuel or from any nuclear waste or from the combustion of nuclear fuel;
any chemical, biological, bio chemical, or electromagnetic weapon.
Claimants must be entitled to compensation of at least €21 000 for each death or injury caused by the following risks:
the death of a passenger;
injuries caused by:
electromagnetic interference;
nuclear radiation;
radioactivity;
electrical interference.
In addition, the regulation sets out the liability limits for the insurance and other financial security provided for under the convention. The liability limits are set out in the annex to the regulation. Insurance companies are liable only for their part of the total amount of account in respect of each passenger on each distinct occasion, or 340 million units of account overall per ship. The burden of proving fault or neglect lies with the claimant.
Where a passenger dies or is seriously injured, the compensation must not be less than EUR 21 000. If the claimant fails to prove fault or negligence, the claimant must be liable for the full amount of the compensation.
If a passenger is killed or seriously injured on board an EU-registered vessel, the liability must be at least equal to that of the carrier or the performing carrier. The claimant must prove that the negligence was caused by negligence or fault by the negligence of the insurer or the carrier itself.
An EU country may choose to defer application of this regulation until 4 years after the date of its application. It may also decide to apply it until the date on which the insurance or other security is established. If appropriate, the place of business of the insurers or the guarantor must be indicated.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 January 2007. EU countries had to incorporate it into national law by 1 January 2008.
BACKGROUND
 
For more information, see:
The Athens Convention (European Commission).
MAIN DOCUMENT
  Еганска градка  барка (OJ L 183, 1.1.2007, pp. 1-2)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EC No 553/2006 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
  ARTICLE
  The European Parliament and the Council of 22 December 2006 on the implementation of the Convention on the Insurance of Passengers and their Luggage by Sea, and repealing Council Regulation (EEC No 605/2006) No 1/2006 (O J L 195, 29.12.2006, pp 1-3)
See consolidated version.
Council Regulation (EU) No 8/2006 of 23 December 2006 laying down the liability rules on the insurance of passengers on board vessels of Class B and Class A under Article 2.1 of the Athens Conventions (Codified version



Summary 143:
Framework for the management of freight corridors in the EU (Regulation (EC) No 561/2010)
Framework Regulation (EC), No 551/2010
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out rules on the management and allocation of railway infrastructure capacity for international freight trains running on freight corridors.
It aims to promote the development of the EU’s internal rail market.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to:
the establishment of a freight corridor;
the management of the infrastructure capacity on such corridors; and
the levying of charges for the use of rail infrastructure.
Establishment of the freight corridor
The European Union (EU) Member States are responsible for the establishment and management of a rail freight corridor. The establishment of the corridor must be proposed by the Member States concerned. It must be supported financially within the framework of the TEN-T, research and Marco Polo programmes, and other EU policies and funds, such as the European Regional Development Fund or the Cohesion Fund.
The Member States must establish the corridor at the latest 2 years after the decision of the Commission to establish it. The Commission must consult the Committee of the European Parliament, the Council and the European Economic and Social Committee on the establishment or modification of the railway infrastructure located on their territory.
A management board is set up to manage the corridor. It is composed of infrastructure managers from the different Member States. The management board may be an independent legal entity. It may also issue own-initiative opinions. The executive board defines the framework for the allocation of infrastructure capacity.
Management of the corridors is managed by the management board.
An application for infrastructure capacity must be submitted to the European Commission within 60 days of the decision to establish a corridor. This time limit does not exceed 60 days.
If the Commission considers that an application is not satisfactory, it may impose a fee on the applicant. The level of this fee must be appropriate, dissuasive and effective.
One-stop shop for applications
A register must be made freely available to all interested parties. It contains the dates of the requests, names of the applicants, details of documentation supplied and of incidents which have occurred.
Regulatory bodies must be easily accessible to the market players, and able to take decisions independently and efficiently.
When a Member State does not agree on establishing or modifying a rail infrastructure corridor, it must consult one of the other Member States on its territory. If no agreement is reached, it can refer the matter to the regulatory body referred to in Article 20 of the regulation.
Implementation
The Commission must periodically examine the application of this regulation. If it considers that the regulation is not being applied effectively, it will adopt a regulation to amend it.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULATING APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 January 2011.
BACKGROUND
The EU has adopted a number of implementing acts on railway infrastructure. These include:
Directive 2001/14/EC establishing the European Union Railways Agency (see summary);
Council Directive 91/440/EEC of 29 July 1991 laying down the rules for the development and operation of the Community's railways;
Council Decision 1999/468/EC of 28 June 1999 laying down procedures for the exercise of implementing powers conferred on the Commission, with the exception of the regulatory procedure with scrutiny, which is not applicable.
For more information, see:
Railways (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Freight corridor: a railway infrastructure corridor is defined in the regulation as a railway line which is used exclusively for the transport of international freight.
* Infrastructure management body: the body responsible for managing the infrastructure on such a rail corridor.
MAIN DOCUMENT
 
  Егранска наганка (OJ L 183, 1.1.2011, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EEC) no 551(2010) have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 652/2009 of 23 April 2009 establishing a European Union Agency for the Management of Railways (Euratom).
See consolidated version.
Communication from the Commission on the implementation of the Framework Regulation on the Management Regulation on Railways.
Commission Implementing Decision 2011/852/EU of 22 June 2011 laying down a framework for implementing the Regulation.
last update 04.01.2015(1) The United Kingdom withdraws from the EU and becomes a third country.



Summary 144:
Road transport operators’ professional qualification — common rules for road transport operators
Road transport operator’s professional qualifications
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 552/2008 — professional qualifications for the occupation of road transport operator
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out rules for the professional qualification of road-transport operators in the European Union (EU).
It aims to improve the quality of the road transport sector and to improve road safety.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to all road transport companies operating in the EU. It does not apply to undertakings operating in non-EU countries.
It applies from 4 December 2011.
The rules apply to:
the transport manager or managers designated by the competent authority of the EU country in which the undertaking is based;
the competent authorities of the country in question;
road transport undertakings established in the territory of an EU country.
Examinations and examinations
EU countries must organise examinations to assess the level of professional competence of the transport managers and managers. The examinations must be organised in accordance with Part II of Annex I. They must be held on the first working day of October and published in the Official Journal of the Union (OJ).
The examinations must consist of a written examination and a physical examination. The examination must be carried out by a qualified person with a minimum weighting of marks of 40% and a maximum of 60% of the total number of marks to be given. In addition to the examinations, the competent authorities must also organise training prior to the examination.
the examination must cover the following the completion of the examinations.
If a transport manager is found to be unfit for the job, the undertaking must suspend or withdraw the authorisation to engage in the occupation within the time limits set out in Article 3 of the regulation.
A transport manager must be accompanied by a written declaration on oath or a solemn declaration of fitness. The competent authority must issue a certificate authenticating the declaration.
An undertaking must also provide a certificate of fitness for the position of transport manager. The certificate must be produced within 3 months of the date of issue.
Penalties for infringements of the rules must be effective, proportionate and dissuasive. An undertaking must be warned in advance and should have a reasonable period of time to rectify the situation before incurring penalties.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
   
It has applied since 4 December 2008. EU countries had to incorporate it into national law by 4 December 2010.
BACKGROUND
Road Transport Regulation (Euratom) (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Road transport operator: a person who:
operates a road transport vehicle;
is responsible for the transport of goods and passengers;
has a role in the management of a transport company.
* Physical examination: the examination is carried out on the basis of a questionnaire and consists of a number of questions. The questionnaire must be completed in a language easily understood by the transport manager and the examination must take place on the premises of the undertaking.
MAIN DOCUMENT
 
  барска гранка   гландра болода
Council Regulation (EU) No 550/2008 of 4 November 2008 establishing a European Union framework for the qualification of the occupational qualifications of road road transport authorities and repealing Council Directive 96/26/EC (Official Journal C 151, 17.6.2008, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 555/2008 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
  ARTICLE
 Â  Â
 хралодраганна 
Directive 2008/68/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 October 2008 establishing the European framework for road traffic management (Official J L 183, 28.10.2008)
See consolidated version.
Directives 2008/72/EC and 2008/74/EC on the harmonisation of the laws of the Member States relating to road transport and repealing Directives 96/27/EC, 96/28/EC or 96/30/EC as regards road transport management and 96/31/EC.
Council Directive 2008/78/EC establishing a common framework for Road Transport Management and repealing Directive 2006/24/EC with regard to the establishment of a European Network of Road Transport Operators.
last update 04.01.2016



Summary 145:
Recovery of social security benefits for accident at work and occupational disease victims
Recovery and enforcement of Social Security benefits
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 883/2004 on the recovery of benefits for persons who have been injured or ill at work or occupational disease
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to ensure that people who have suffered from an accident or an occupational disease are able to recover their benefits.
It sets out rules on how the social security system in the European Union (EU) works.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to all EU citizens who are covered by the following social security schemes:
old-age and survivors’ pensions and invalidity benefits;
cash benefits and sickness benefits in kind provided to the person concerned.
Beneficiaries must be insured in the EU country of their place of residence.
Claims must be submitted to the national social security institution of the country in which they are resident. The institution must immediately arrange for a medical assessment of the person’s incapacity for work and for the certificate to be drawn up.
The applicant party may only make a request for recovery if:
the claim and/or the instrument permitting its enforcement are not contested in its own EU country, except in cases where the second subparagraph of Article 81(2) of the implementing Regulation is applied;
it has applied appropriate recovery procedures available to it on the basis of the instrument referred to in paragraph 1, and the measures taken will not result in the payment in full of the claim;
the period of limitation according to its own legislation has not expired.
If a claim is rejected, the institution must inform the applicant party of the grounds for refusing the request for assistance and the reasons for its refusal.
In the event of a claim being refused, the person may appeal against the rejection. The applicant party must submit a declaration or notification to the competent institution. The declaration must be addressed to the institution.
Where the institution rejects a claim, it must immediately inform the person who made the claim. The person must provide the institution with all the relevant information, such as the name and address of his/her employer, the date of the accident and the duration of the sickness benefit, the amount of the benefit and the reason for rejecting the claim, as well as information on how to appeal against its rejection.
A creditor institution may make a claim for recovery against the institution which initially paid the cash benefits. The creditor institution is responsible for the cost of the claims and the enforcement of its enforcement measures. The claim may be contested in the country where the claim was lodged.
When a creditor institution rejects the claim it must notify the applicant parties of the reasons why. The claimant party must then submit a provisional decision on the provisional decision within 2 months. The decision may be appealed to the European Court of Justice (ECJ) or the Court of Auditors of the EU. The ECJ may also decide to issue a judgment in the case of a dispute between the creditor institution and the claimant parties.
Reimbursement of benefits
The European Commission must ensure that:
beneficiaries are reimbursed for the costs of their actual expenditure;
they are paid on a fixed amount. This fixed amount must be as close as possible to actual expenditure.
Sickness benefits are calculated according to the theoretical amount and the actual amount of benefit in accordance with the basic regulation.
Invalidity benefits and old-age pensions are calculated based on the number of days worked and the average number of weeks worked per year.
Creditors may charge interest on outstanding claims. The amount of interest may be charged by the creditor institutions if the claim is not paid within 18 months of the end of the 18-month period.
EU countries must establish liaison bodies to deal with disputes between social security institutions and to exchange information on administrative procedures.
Evaluation of the regulation
The Commission must assess whether the regulation is being applied correctly. It must also assess whether it is being implemented correctly and whether the rules are being applied proportionately.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
It entered into force on 1 January 2005. EU countries had to incorporate it into national law by 1 January 2006.
BACKGROUND
   
For more information, see:
‘Recovery’ on the European Commission's website.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of entry into force
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Commission Implementing Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 905/2004
1.1.2005
-
OJ L 136 of 1.2.2005.
RELATED ACTS
Communication from the Commission to the Council, the European Parliament and the European Economic and Social Committee on the implementation of Regulation (Euratom), the European Social Fund, the Council and the Committee of the Regions (COM(2004) No



Summary 146:
Statistics on health and health and safety at work: European statistical system (ESS)
Statistics on work and health (ES)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 552/2008 establishing a European Community statistical system
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes a European Union (EU) statistical system for the collection of statistics on health status and determinants.
It aims to provide comparable data and information, with appropriate indicators, in order to monitor Community actions in the fields of public health, public health and occupational safety and health at work.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to:
health status and health determinants;
health-related health problems and illnesses;
the causes of morbid events leading directly to death or the circumstances of the accident or violence which produced the fatal injury.
EU countries must provide the European Commission (Eurostat) with data on the following:
the number of people who have been diagnosed with a disease or injury at work;
number of deaths caused by work-related illness or accidents;
deaths caused by accidents or violence.
Every 5 years, each EU country must provide Eurostat with a report on the quality of the data transmitted.
The Commission must prepare a report evaluating the findings of the pilot studies and/or cost-benefit analyses, including the effects and implications of national specificities, in cooperation with Member States, in the framework of the collaborative networks and other ESS structures.
Quality assessment
Eurostat must ensure that the data are collected in accordance with the ESAW Phase III specifications on a voluntary basis. The quality assessment is carried out every 5 years.
National authorities must ensure the confidentiality of the information they transmit.
References
The European Commission must publish a reference period, intervals and time limits for data provision. The data must be submitted no later than 18 months after the end of the reference year.
In addition, the Commission must submit a report to the European Parliament, the Council and the European Economic and Social Committee (ESC) on the results of the studies carried out under this regulation. The report must include:
a description of the types of data to be collected;
a summary of the quality assessment results;
an estimate of the relevance of the statistics to the current and potential needs of users.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULATIONS APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 January 2009.
BACKGROUND
The EU has been developing a European health monitoring system for several years. It also collects data on those areas through other sources.
For more information, see:
European Health Statistics (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Health status: a person’s health status is defined as the number of years in which he or she has lived or is likely to live.
* Work-related sickness: a health problem or illness which can be caused, worsened or jointly caused by working conditions.
ACT
 
  The European Parliament and the Council of 23 October 2008 establishing a Community Statistical System for the Protection of Health and Safety at Work (OJ L 183, 29.10.2008, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EC, No 553/2008 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 04.02.2016



Summary 147:
EU countries’ quarterly data on job vacancies (EMU statistical requirements) (European Employment Strategy) (EESS)
EU countries' quarterly job vacancy (EMEU statistical requirements).
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 552/2010 — EU countries' data on quarterly job vacancies
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes a legal basis for EU countries to send the European Commission (Eurostat) quarterly statistics on the number of vacancies in their labour market.
It sets out the format and technical specifications for the data that EU countries must send to Eurostat.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to:
units with fewer than 10 employees;
units in which the employer is taking active steps and is prepared to take further steps to find a suitable candidate from outside the enterprise concerned;
the following activities:
public administration and defence; compulsory social security;
education;
human health and social work activities;
arts, entertainments and recreation;
activities of membership organisations, repair of computers and personal and household goods and other personal service activities.
The data must be broken down by economic activity in accordance with the NACE in force at section level. They must be transmitted in a format and within the deadlines set out in the regulation and within transmission deadlines. The Commission may use other sources, such as administrative data, provided that they are appropriate in terms of quality, in order to monitor and analyse the level and structure of labour demand in the EU countries.
Each EU country must submit a report on the results of feasibility studies it has carried out to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the European Statistical Programme Committee on the quality of the data it transmits to the Commission.
Every 3 years, the Commission publishes a report to the Parliament and the Council on the implementation of the regulation. The report must include:
the number of job vacancies in each EU country,
the sources of all data provided and the deadlines for their transmission;
a description of the types of data to be transmitted.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLACE?
From 1 January 2011.
BACKGROUND
The European Employment Strategy (ESS) is the cornerstone of the European Union’s (EU) economic and social policy. It sets out a number of objectives for the EU, including:
raising the level of labour supply;
improving the competitiveness of the labour market;
reducing unemployment;
increasing the share of women in the labour force.
For more information, see:
EU employment statistics (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Quarterly job vacancy: a paid post that is newly created, unoccupied, or about to become vacant.
* Economic activity: the total number of hours worked in a given quarter.
ACT
Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 555/2010 of 21 December 2010 establishing a legal framework for the transmission of quarterly data covering job vacancies by Member States (OJ L 178, 28.12.2010, pp. 1-8)
RELATED ACTS
Council Decision 2005/600/EC of 12 July 2005 on Guidelines for the employment policies of the Member States and repealing Decision 1999/468/EC.
last update 04.02.2016



Summary 148:
Hybrid fuel cell vehicles: type-approval requirements for hydrogen containers and components
Hybrid fuels: type of approval and testing
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 552/2008 — type-approved hydrogen containers for use in motor vehicles
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out rules for the design, manufacture, testing and installation of hydrogen containers* and components* for the use in hydrogen-powered vehicles.
It aims to ensure that these vehicles comply with the requirements laid down in Directive 2007/46/EC.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to:
hydrogen containers designed to use liquid hydrogen (i.e. containers that can be filled with liquid hydrogen);
components designed for use compressed (gaseous) hydrogen with a nominal working pressure of over 3,0 MPa (3.5 atmospheres).
It does not apply to hydrogen mixtures.
Manufacturers must ensure that:
the containers used in their vehicles meet the requirements set out in Annex II of the regulation;
the components and systems used in such containers are tested and certified according to the requirements contained in Annex III;
they must be kept for a minimum of 10 years.
The European Commission is assisted by the Technical Committee — Motor Vehicles (TCMV) established by Article 40(1) of the Directive.
Penalties for infringements
The penalties are effective, proportionate and dissuasive. They include:
falsifying test results;
making false declarations during an approval procedure or a procedure leading to a recall;
refusal to provide access to information;
use of defeat devices.
FROMENTRY INTO FORCE
From 24 August 2010, EU countries had to notify the Commission of any subsequent amendment affecting them.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 605/2010
24.8.2010
-
OJ L 136 of 24.8.2010
Amending act(s)
Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 852/2009
24 August 2009
-   
Regulations (EC and Euratom).
Directive 2008/48/EC
18.7.2008
18 August 2008
18 July 2009
18 June 2009
19.6.2009
20.12.2009.
Amendments to Directive 2008/488/EC (see summary)
Directives 2008/49/EC and 2008/52/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 June 2008 on the type of vehicle to be equipped with hydrogen and fuel cell technology and repealing Directive 2006/53/EC, 2006/54/EC on the general safety of motor vehicles and repealing Directives 2006/57/EC/EEC and 2006/58/EC as regards the general requirements for the general technical requirements for motor vehicles, as well as repealing Directive 2005/43/EC with regard to the General Safety of Motor Vehicles Directive (see amending acts).
The annexes to the regulation have been amended several times, most recently by Directive 2014/11/EU.
Regulatory Regulation (Euratom) 2015/852
18 September 2015
18 October 2015
19 December 2015
20 September 2016
20 October 2016
21 December 2016
22 November 2016
23 December 2016.
Commission Decision 2014/10/EU of 22 November 2014 on the application of the General Technical Regulation (GTR) on hydrogen and fuelling vehicles (See summary) (See amending act (ex-EC) (OJ C 202, 23.11.2014, pp. 1-8)
Regulating (EC), Euratom and EC) No 752/2011
18 December 2011
18 January 2012
18 February 2012
19 January 2013
18 March 2012
20 February 2013
19 March 2013
20 April 2013
21 March 2013.
Last updated: 27.07.2015



Summary 149:
Access to the internal market in natural gas networks: fair conditions for access to the transmission networks and storage networks (Regulation (EC) No 1775/2005) on conditions for accessing the natural gas transmission networks, storage and liquefied natural gas facilities (ENTSO for Gas Regulation)
Assessment of the implementation of the ENTSO Regulation on access conditions for the access of network users to natural gas distribution systems and storage facilities (ETN-2009) (European Network of Transmission System Operators for Gas).
SUMMARY
WHAT DOES THIS REGULATION DO?
It sets out the rules for the setting of fair access conditions to the EU’s internal market for natural gas.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to:
the transmission system operators (TSOs);
the natural gas supply and production undertakings (PSUs);
distribution system operators;
the gas storage and LNG facilities (LNG facilities).
It does not apply to the operators of natural gas transport networks.
Transmission system operators must:
ensure that they offer services on a non-discriminatory basis to all network users;
provide both firm and interruptible third-party access services.
They must also:
make public detailed information regarding the services they offer and the relevant conditions applied, together with the technical information necessary to gain effective network access;
make available to the public the information on their network capacity, flows and maintenance, balancing and availability and usage of gas storage;
transfer of primary capacity rights where notified by system users.
make it publicly available for the information they provide;
allow the Commission to adopt a network code.
The Commission must adopt a draft network code for each transmission system operator within 2 months of receiving a public consultation on its implementation. The Commission must then adopt that code within 6 months.
National regulatory authorities must ensure that national regulatory authorities and other national authorities, including the European Network Safety Agency (ENTSO) for Gas, take into account the views and proposals of all relevant parties during the decision-making process.
In addition, the Commission may adopt measures, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, as set out in Article 5 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU), to encourage cooperation at regional level in the field of gas transmission.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
From 1 January 2010.
BACKGROUND
The ENTSOs for Gas is the body responsible for the coordination of the regulation. It is responsible for ensuring that the regulation is implemented.
For more information, see:
‘Directive 2003/55/EC on common rules for market in gas’ on the European Commission's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Transmission system operator: a natural gas system operator that has the right to supply or receive natural gas through its transmission network, storage or LNG facility.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EU) No 3/2009 of 21 December 2009 establishing a Regulation on the Access Conditions for the Access of Network Users to the Natural Gas Transmission Networks, Storage and Liquefied Natural Gas Facilities (EnTSO-2009 Regulation) (OJ L 283, 28.12.2009, pp. 1-8)
RELATED DOCUMENTS
   
Regulation No 5/2014/EU of the Council of 11 December 2014 establishing a framework guideline for the establishment of a European Network for Gas (ETO-2014 Regulation) and repealing Council Regulation (Euratom) No 652/2004 (EURatom Regulation) No 596/2003 (EUT-2004 Regulation).
Commission Implementing Decision 2014/852/EU on the establishment, on behalf of the EU, of a Framework Guidance for the Implementation of the Regulation on Access Conditions to the Transmission Networks and Storage of Natural Gas (Eut-2014/1) (EC(2014) No 852/2014).
last update 04.02.2016



Summary 150:
Convention on civil law between EU countries and non-EU countries (Civil Justice Regulation)
Civil law Regulation (Civil Law Regulation) (European Union)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 552/2009 on the conclusion of an agreement with a third country on matters of civil law
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes a legal framework for cooperation in civil matters between the European Union (EU) and its Member States.
It aims to ensure that the EU has exclusive competence to conclude agreements with third countries relating to areas of civil justice that fall within the scope of Title IV of the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to all civil law matters covered by Title IV (recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters). It does not apply to matters of jurisdiction, recognition and enforcement.
In order to provide an adequate legal framework to meet specific needs of a given Member State in its relations with a given country, there may also be a manifest need for the re-negotiation of existing agreements.
The European Commission may propose negotiating guidelines or request the inclusion of particular clauses, as referred to in the second subparagraph of the regulation, in order to improve the legal status of the agreement.
Notification to the Commission
The Member State concerned must notify the Commission of ongoing or already announced negotiations with a view to obtaining authorisation to open formal negotiations. The notification must include, as appropriate, a copy of the existing agreement, the draft agreement or the draft proposal, and any other relevant documentation. The Commission must assess whether the negotiated agreement:
meets the condition set out in the regulation;
fulfils the requirement under Article 5(2) of the annex to the regulation concerning the same specific legal issues;
falls within the competence of the Community;
may refuse to authorise the conclusion if the agreement does not meet the conditions laid down in Article 4(2)(b);
does not comply with the confidentiality requirements.
If the Commission considers that the Member State has not complied with the conditions, it must inform the European Parliament, the Council and the European Economic and Social Committee of the reasons for its refusal.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
   
It entered into force on 1 July 2009.
BACKGROUND
Judicial cooperation between Member States and third countries has traditionally been governed by agreements between the EU and its member countries. However, in 2006, the Court of Justice of the European Communities confirmed that the Community has acquired exclusive competence for concluding an international agreement like the Lugano Convention with non-European Union countries.
For more information, see:
‘Civil law’ on the European Commission's website.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 555/2009
1.7.2009
-
OJ L 7 of 7.3.2009.
RELATED ACTS
Council Decision 2009/852/EC of 13 July 2009 concerning the conclusion, on behalf of the Union, of an Agreement on the same matters of Civil Law between the Community and the third country concerned as those governed by this Regulation (OJ C 202, 14.8.2009, pp. 1-2)
Council Directive 2009/9/EC on the establishment of a European Union External Action Service (Euratom) (Official Journal C 202 of 14.9.2009)
See consolidated version.
last update 04.02.2018



Summary 151:
Statistics on migration and asylum
Statistics on immigration and asylum and on international protection
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 552/2008 on the collection and analysis of Community Statistics in the field of migration
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out rules for the harmonisation of EU-wide statistics on migration, asylum and international protection.
It aims to improve the quality of the EU’s statistical information on asylum and migration.
KEY POINTS
EU countries must:
provide to the European Commission (Eurostat) statistics on the numbers of:
third-country nationals refused entry to the EU country's territory at the external border;
third countries’ nationals found to be illegally present in the EU State's territory under national laws relating to immigration.
These statistics relate to reference periods of one calendar year and must be supplied to Eurostat within 3 months of the end of the reference year.
The statistics must be based on the following data sources:
records of administrative and judicial actions;
registers relating to administrative actions and administrative actions involving a particular sub-group of persons;
censuses;
sample surveys;
other appropriate sources.
Statistics must be disaggregated by age and sex, and by citizenship of the persons concerned.
In addition, EU countries must report to the Commission on the use and probable effects of estimations or other methods of adapting statistics based on national definitions to comply with the harmonised definitions set out in the regulation.
National definitions may be used for the following negotiations on alternative (national) definitions.
FROM WHEN DOES THE REGULE APPLYEARS OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
The regulation entered into force
It applies from 1 January 2008.
BACKGROUND
In April 2003, the Commission released a Communication to the Council and the European Parliament, setting out an Action Plan for the collection, analysis and dissemination of Community statistics in the area of migration. This included a number of important changes designed to improve completeness and degree of harmonisation.
For more information, see:
‘Migration and asylum statistics’ on Eurostat's website.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (ECBudgetary Regulation (EU) No 550/2008 of 20 August 2008 on the harmonization of Community Statistical Data on Migration and Asylum and repealing Decision 1999/468/EC (OJ L 311, 20.8.2008, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EEC) no 550/2009 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
Communication from the Commission to the Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions on the implementation of the Regulation on Community Statistics on Migration (COM(2006) 553/2006)
Commission Communication of 6 November 2003 on the introduction of a Community Action Plan on the Collection and Analysis of Community Migration and on International Protection (2003-2006) [COM(2003) 682 final - Not published in the Official Journal].
Commission communication of 6 December 2003 on a Community Strategy for the Collection, Analysis and Dissemination of Migration Statistics (2003/2006/EC) [Official Journal L 311 of 31.12.2003].
See consolidated version.
Last updated: 20.07.2006



Summary 152:
Statutory audit of public-interest entities: transparency and accountability
Statutory auditor and audit firm transparency and accounting standards
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 552/2009 on statutory audits of public interest entities
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to ensure that statutory auditors* and audit firms* carrying out statutory audits* are transparent and accountable for their work.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to statutory audits carried out by:
the statutory auditor or audit firm carrying out the statutory audit of a public interest entity;
the audit firms of systemically important financial institutions.
It does not apply to:
statutory auditors or audit firms carrying out non-audit services;
audit firms that have not been designated by a competent authority.
The statutory auditor and the audit firm must:
ensure that the audit report is in clear and unambiguous language;
report to the competent authorities every 3 years on the quality of the audit work they have carried out;
publish their annual activity reports and annual work programmes;
provide a report on the overall results of the quality assurance system on an annual basis.
They must also:
disclosure in good faith to those authorities of any irregularities referred to in the first subparagraph of the regulation;
notify the European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBA) of any breaches of confidentiality and professional secrecy rules.
In addition, they must ensure that:
they:
have a quality control system in place;
are transparent and at least publish an annual activity report and an annual work programme;
have an annual audit report and a quality assurance report;
cooperate with the EBA and the ECB;
operate and cooperate with the ECB and the other competent authorities.
If an audit firm or statutory auditor fails to comply with the regulation’s requirements, it may be subject to sanctions.
EU countries must ensure:
that the statutory auditor* or the audit firms involved in the audit of an EU public interest body is:
registered with the competent authority;
registered in the EU;
engaged with the European College of Auditors (CEAOB) for at least 5 years;
ensured that they have the necessary documents and information to carry out their tasks;
inform the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions of the results of their engagement with a statutory auditor, audit firm, or other audit firm during the 5 years preceding the engagement.
FROM WHEN DOES THE LEGULATION APPLY?
 
It has applied since 17 June 2009. EU countries had to incorporate it into national law by 17 June 2012.
BACKGROUND
   
The European Commission has adopted a number of delegated acts implementing the regulation. These include:
Delegated Regulation (EU) 2017/852 on statutory audit;
Directive 2006/43/EC on the establishment of the European Systemically Important Financial Institutions (ESIBs);
Commission Decision 2009/856/EC establishing the European Accounting Standards Board.
For more information, see:
‘Public-interest audit’ on the European Commission's website.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Council Regulation (ec) No 529/2009
17 June 2009
17.6.2009
-
OJ L 131, 17.6-18.2009, pp. 1-8
RELATED ACTS
Council Directive 2006/41/EC of 27 May 2006 establishing the establishment, on the basis of Article 290 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU, of a European system of auditors and of audit firms (OJ C 202, 28.5.2006, p. 1)
See consolidated version.
Commission Implementing Regulation (EEC) 2018/853 of 17 June 2018 establishing a European System of Audit Firms (EASB).
See summary.
last update 04.02.2021



Summary 153:
Conservation of marine biological resources and management of fisheries targeting them (Common Fisheries Policy) (CFP) (OJ L 183, 31.12.2013, pp. 1-20)
Conservation and management measures for the conservation of marine biological resources and the management of fishing targeting them.
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 1224/2013 establishing a common fisheries policy
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes a common fishing policy for the European Union (EU) in the Baltic Sea, North Sea, Celtic seas, Bay of Biscay and the Iberian Coast, Mediterranean and Black Sea sea basins.
KEY POINTS
The CFP is the EU’s fisheries policy. It aims to conserve and sustainably exploit marine biodiversity and to ensure the sustainable exploitation of these resources.
The regulation applies to:
fishing within the 12 nautical mile (nm) area of the CFP;
fisheries targeting certain species of marine life (e.g. herring, swordfish, porpoises, mussels, oysters, clams);
the fishing of certain migratory species of fish and crustaceans;
the management of certain fisheries targeting these species.
EU countries must:
ensure that the conservation and sustainable exploitation rates are achieved by 2015;
cooperate with each other in the implementation of their national conservation and management programmes;
take the necessary measures to ensure that fishing activities are sustainable;
promote the sustainable development of aquaculture activities;
coordinate the conservation, management and sustainable use of the marine life in their respective waters.
Consult each other EU countries on the implementation and implementation of the regulation.
Each EU country must submit to the Commission a report on the execution of its national data collection programmes and make it publicly available. The Commission then adopts implementing acts to implement this report.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULATIONS APPLY?
   
It has applied since 31 March 2013.
BACKGROUND
 
The European Commission has adopted a number of implementing acts implementing the common fishery policy. These include:
Implementing acts for the management and conservation of fisheries;
implementing measures to promote the sustainable utilisation of marine biodiversity;
regional cooperation on conservation measures.
For more information, see:
‘The Common Fisheries Policy’ on the European Commission's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Common fisheries policy: the EU's fisheries policy, which aims to protect, conserve and sustainable exploit the marine ecosystems of its waters. It covers the fishing of fish, shellfish, crustacean species and migratory fish species, including:
marine mammals;
marine fauna and flora;
seabirds and marine invertebrates;
aquaculture; and
marine invertebrate species and fauna.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1323/2013 of 30 March 2013 laying down a common Fisheries Policy for the period 2013-2015.
Successive amendments and corrections to Council Regulation (Euratom) 2015/1323 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
Council Implementing Act (EU), Euratom and Euratom Implementing Regulation (EU, Euroatom) 2016/852 of 26 June 2016 on the conservation measures for sustainable use and sustainable utilization of marine bio-biological resources (Codification of the EU Fisheries Policy).
Commission Implementing Decision 2014/856/EU of 26 May 2014 on the establishment of a European Union Fisheries Strategy for the year 2014-2020.
Communication from the Commission to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions: Towards a common approach to fisheries policy (COM(2014) 565 final, 30.6.2014)
Commission Communication from the Council and the Commission on the development of a common European Union fisheries strategy for the years 2014-20.
Last updated: 27.07.2014



Summary 154:
Fishery and aquaculture markets — common organisation of the markets in fishery products (CMO)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 552/2013 on the establishment of fishery producer organisations
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes a common system for the organisation and functioning of the EU’s markets in fisheries.
It aims to ensure fair competition in the market for fishery and aquatic products.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to:
fishery producers;
aquaculture producer organisations;
the European Commission;
other producers’ organisations.
Member States must ensure that:
the regulation is implemented in accordance with the rules of the Common Fisheries Policy (CFP);
the rules are implemented in line with the principles of fair competition;
there is no discrimination between producer organisations and traders;
market prices are set according to a trigger price, based on trends in production and demand and the convergence of market prices.
Fisheries producer organisations must:
prepare an annual report of their activities under the production and marketing plan and submit it to the competent national authorities for approval;
ensure that their annual report is submitted to the Commission for approval.
The Commission must adopt implementing acts concerning the format and procedure for the notification of the notification provided for in Article 25(1) of the regulation.
Producer organisations may pursue other complementary objectives, such as:
promoting the sustainable development of the fishery sector;
protecting consumers’ interests;
raising awareness of the impact of the common fisheries policy;
encouraging the sustainable management of the fisheries sector.
In addition to the above objectives, the regulation sets out a list of categories of products for which producer organisations are responsible for:
seaweed and shellfish;
fishing products of animal origin intended for human consumption;
marine products intended for export to non-EU countries;
fish products intended to be sold on the European Union market (EU market).
The producer organisation responsible for the marketing of these products must prepare a marketing plan for each category of product for which it is responsible. This plan must include:
a description of the products to be marketed;
an annual report on the production, marketing and sales plan;
a list of products to which the producer organisation is responsible and a description of its annual marketing plan.
A producer organisation must also submit its annual report to the European Commission. The Commission must make all such information publically available.
Implementing acts
Each year, the Commission adopts implementing acts specifying the format, procedure and information to be provided by the producer organisations. The regulation also lays down detailed rules for the implementation of Regulation (EC) No 1224/2009 establishing a Community control system for ensuring compliance with the EU rules on official controls on fishery origin.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULATIONS APPLY?
   
It has applied since 29 December 2013. Member States had to incorporate it into national law by 29 December 2014.
BACKGROUND
The CFP is an integral part of the European fisheries policy. It aims to achieve its objectives by:
establishing a common market in fisheries;
improving the conditions for fair competition and the application of social standards.
For more information, see:
The Common Market in Fishery and Aquaculture Products (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Trigger price: the price at which a fishery product is traded on the market.
* CMO: the market price set by a producer organisation to determine the trigger price for a product. It is based on a number of factors, including:
trends in production, demand and trends in prices,
the stabilisation of the market prices;
consumers’ incomes and the producers' incomes;
interests of consumers; and
the interests of consumers.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Commission Implementing Regulation
29.12.2013
-
OJ L 183 of 29.12-2013
Amending act(s)
Entry INTO FORCE
Commission Decision 2013/852/EU
31.11.2013 - amending Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 496/2012
31-12.11-2014
Commission Directive 2013/9/EC
30-12-EU
29-11-EC
31-(1)
31(2)
OCTOBER 2013
- The Commission Implementing Decision (EU), Euratom and Euratom Implementing Regulations
29-(1)(1)(2) and (3)
Directive 2013/11/EU of the General Assembly and of the Council of 11 October 2013 establishing a common organisation for the market in fish products and establishing a system of official controls in fisheries and aqu



Summary 155:
Settlement systems — securities settlement systems (SPSS)
Settlement system — security settlement systems
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010 — rules for the establishment, operation and operation of the securities settlement system (CSD)
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out rules for establishing, operating and maintaining securities settlement* systems (CSDs) in the European Union (EU).
It aims to ensure that the EU’s securities market infrastructure (SSS) is safe and secure.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to all transferable securities issued after 1 January 2023 and from 1 January 2025. It does not apply to securities issued before that date.
The CSD must:
provide services to issuers and other market infrastructure;
ensure that the relevant authorities in the EU country in which the CSD is based have the necessary authority to authorise it to provide services;
be transparent and accountable to the management body for the day-to-day management of that CSD.
It applies to the following services:
transfers of securities between a CSD and another CSD;
the provision of services to an issuer and another market infrastructure.
A CSD may refuse to provide a service if:
the issuer has not complied with the conditions laid down in the regulation;
it has not been authorised by the competent authority of the country of origin; or
it does not comply with the requirements of the regulation.
the CSD has not provided services in another EU country.
In addition, the regulation sets out specific rules on:
access to other CSDs’ systems;
fees’ rights to participate in the exchange of information between CSDs and other SSDs.
EU countries must ensure that CSDs are:
cooperating with the European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) and the European Banking Authority (EBA);
notifying the competent authorities of other EU countries of any non-compliance with the regulation, and
ensuring that the CSDs comply with its rules;
providing services to a non-EU country and to other market infrastructures.
Providers of services must: provide services to the issuer;
notify the authorities of EU countries if they believe that the services they provide are not being provided in a timely manner;
have the right to refuse services if they consider that they are not providing the services in line with the rules laid down by the regulation or that they do not meet the necessary standards;
allow the issuers to use the services of a designated credit institution to settle their securities.
They must also:
not charge fees for the services provided;
set up link arrangements to enable their respective participants to access other securities settlements systems. These link arrangements are subject to specific requirements to enable the access of their participants to other SSD systems.
FROM WHEN DOES THE LEGULATION APPLY?
   
It has applied since 18 June 2010. EU countries had to incorporate it into national law by 18 June 2015.
BACKGROUND
The EU has adopted a number of rules on the establishment of securities markets, including:
Directive 2014/65/EU on securities markets (see summary);
Regulations (EC) No 909/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council on securities settlement and implementing Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 552/2014 on the electronic trading of securities and on the harmonisation of the rules on market infrastructure for the settlement of securities;
Commission Implementing Decision 2014/852/EU of 18 June 2014 establishing a European Securities Trading System (ESTS) and repealing Directive 2014/64/EU (See summary).
For more information, see:
‘Securities settlement systems’ on the European Commission's website.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Council Directive 2010/1095/EU
18.6.2010
-
OJ L 127, 18.6, 2010.10.2010, pp. 1-8
Amending act(s)
Entry in force
Date of transposition: 18.7.2014
OCTOBER 2023 - Date applicable to all transfers of securities
Date applicable to transfers of financial instruments traded on an SME growth market
Transferable securities traded on the SME Growth Market
Transfers between two CSDs
1.1.2023: Transferable securities
2.2.2025: Transfers from one CSD to the other.
Amendments to Directive 2008/98/EC
1 January 2020: transposition of financial instrument traded on a single CSD on a cross-border market infrastructure
1 February 2023: Transposition of securities traded between 2 CSDs on the same CS



Summary 156:
Cohesion Fund: transport infrastructure — European transport network (TEN-T) and environmental protection and sustainable development objectives
Cohesion fund: transportation and environment — European transportation network (Trans-European transport network)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 1315/2013 establishing the European Structural and Investment Funds (CohesionFund)
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
   
It establishes the European structural and investment funds (ESIFs) and the European territorial cooperation goal (ETDF) to provide financial support to projects in the fields of environment and trans-European networks in the area of transport infrastructure.
It repeals Regulation (EC) No 1084/2006.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation sets out the type of activities which can be supported by the Cohesion Fund, in order to contribute to the investment priorities within the thematic objectives of the ESIFs. These include:
environmental and transport infrastructure;
trans-European rail transport network projects;
European territorial cooperation goals (ETDPs);
connecting Europe.
Funding
The European Commission has the power to adopt delegated acts to authorise, authorise or authorise the funding of projects under the EDF, the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) or the Connecting Europe Facility (CEF).
The Commission is responsible for the implementation of these delegated acts.
The EDF and the CEF are responsible for:
providing financial support for operational programmes and major projects.
contributing to the development of the EDPs;
setting investment priorities;
supporting the development and implementation of infrastructure projects and programmes in the areas covered by the European Territorial Cooperation Goal (ECTG);
provide technical assistance.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
It entered into force on 1 January 2014.
BACKGROUND
The ESIF is one of the EU’s main investment instruments. It is funded by the EU budget and is managed by the Commission.
For more information, see:
Transport infrastructure (European Commission).
MAIN DOCUMENTUMENT
Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 1303/2013 of 21 December 2013 establishing the framework for the European Social Fund for the Development of the European Union (European Social Fund) (OJ L 94, 1.1.2014, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (Euratom) 2018/852 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
 
  барскиганска гранда наркова   данка  года
Commission Implementing Decision 2014/856/EU of 27 November 2014 on the establishment of a European Social and Investment Fund (European social fund) (Official Journal L 94 of 1.2.2014)
Commission Delegated Regulation (CFSP) 2014/943 of 27 October 2014 establishing a European social and investment fund for the social and economic policy area of the social policy area and amending Council Regulation (ESDF) No 552/2014 (Official J L 96, 28.3.2014).
See consolidated version.
last update 04.02.2019



Summary 157:
Sustainable urban development: European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) support for urban development and sustainable tourism, culture and natural heritage (SUT)
SUTS
SutS
The European regional development fund supports the sustainable urban development of regions in the European Union (EU).
ACT
Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 October 2013 establishing the European Regional development fund (EDF) and repealing Regulation (EC) No 1080/2006.
SUMMARY
WHAT DOES THIS REGULATION DO?
The ERDF is the main instrument of the EU’s economic and social policy. It provides financial support to regions in order to reduce disparities between the levels of development of the various regions and to reduce the backwardness of the least favoured regions, among which particular attention is to be paid to regions which suffer from severe and permanent natural or demographic handicaps such as the northernmost regions with very low population density and island, cross-border and mountain regions.
KEY POINTS
Scope of support from the ERDF
The main objective of this regulation is to provide financial support for the development of urban areas in the outermost regions. The ERDF supports the urban areas of the most deprived regions and the least developed regions, in particular those which have suffered from severe or permanent social or economic handicaps.
The aim is to contribute to:
the development of sustainable urban areas;
the conversion of declining industrial regions;
sustainable tourism and culture, including the conversion of industrial regions into a tourism-based economy;
economic diversification of the urban economy.
the creation of jobs and growth of sustainable tourism.
In order to achieve this objective, the European territorial features (e.g. sustainable tourism and cultural heritage) must be part of the territorial strategy for specific areas, including:
urban development;
urban renewal and urban renewal;
environmental protection;
transport services and start-up aid for transport services;
operations linked to storage constraints, the excessive size and maintenance of production tools, and the lack of human capital in the local market.
Specific provisions on the treatment of particular territorial features
The regulation sets out specific provisions on:
Sustainable tourism
The managing authority of an urban authority must:
designate a territorial strategy to be implemented by the urban authorities;
define the scope of tasks, to be undertaken by urban authorities, concerning the management of integrated actions for sustainable development. The managing authority must formally record its decision in writing.
Urban development
In addition, the managing authority may:
assess the economic, social and environmental impact of urban development programmes;
establish a programme-specific result indicators, which relate to investment priorities, based on the latest available data and targets set for 2023;
set up a monitoring system to monitor the implementation of the programme;
ensure that programmes are implemented in line with the programme objectives;
draw up an annual report on the progress made by the implementing authorities.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
This regulation entered into force on 31 December 2013.
BACKGROUND
The EU‘s economic policy is based on a number of principles:
timely and equitable development, which is the aim of reducing disparities between regions’ development levels;
promoting sustainable growth and jobs;
creating an environment that is conducive to sustainable development, with a view to reducing social and economic disparities;
supporting the sustainable development of small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs).
For more information, see:
‘Sustainable Urban Development’ on the European Commission's website.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 1300/2013
31.12.2013
-
OJ L 183 of 30.11.2013.
RELATED ACTS
Commission Implementing Decision 2014/852/EU of 26 November 2014 on the implementation by the European Social Fund of the Regulation on the common rules applicable to the European regional Development Fund, the Cohesion Fund and the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development, and repealing Council Regulation (EEC, EEC, EC, EEA, EC and EEA) No 1065/2006 (OJ C 191, 29.11-31.2014, pp. 1-2)
Commission Decision 2014-852 of 26 June 2014 on implementing Decision 2014 on a common framework for the European social fund and the cohesion fund for rural development and repealing Decision 2013/853/EEC (Official Journal L 183, 31.6.2014).
Last updated: 27.07.2014



Summary 158:
European territorial cooperation goal for the 2014-2020 programming period (ERDF-2020)
Eastern Europe: European territorial cooperation goals for the 2018-2023 period (EU-2020 programme)
European Territorial cooperation goal (EU)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (Euratom) No 552/2013 on the European Regional Development Fund
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out the EU’s European Territorial Cooperation goal (ETC) for the EU-2020.
It aims to contribute to reducing disparities between the levels of development of the various regions and to reducing the backwardness of the least favoured regions, among which particular attention is to be paid to rural areas, areas affected by industrial transition, and regions which suffer from severe and permanent natural or demographic handicaps such as the northernmost regions with very low population density and island, cross-border and mountain regions.
KEY POINTS
The ERDF is the main instrument for the implementation of the ETC. It is funded by the European Development Fund (EDF), the European Social Fund (ESF) and the Cohesion Fund (Cohesion Fund).
The ETC is designed to:
contribute to the development of regions with low levels of economic and social development;
reduce disparities between regions;
improve the quality of life in the most deprived regions; and
improve regional integration.
The regulation sets out specific investment priorities for certain interregional cooperation programmes to reflect their specific activities.
In order to achieve its ETC goal, the ERDF allocates up to 2.75 % of the global resources available for budgetary commitment from the European Union (EU), the ESF and Cohesion funds, and up to 5% of the total amount allocated for cross-Border and transnational cooperation.
Cooperation programmes must be designed and implemented in line with the objectives set out in Regulation (EC) No 1303/2013 (see summary).
In addition, specific or additional investment priorities must be set out to reflect the specific activities of the participating regions. These priorities are:
transnational cooperation;
cross-border cooperation, including the additional allocation provided for under Article 4(2) of Regulation (EU, ESF, Cohesion and Development Fund Regulation (EEC) 2018/2023;
interregional and regional cooperation, with a total allocation of up to €500 million;
technical assistance (e.g. research and development);
research and development (R&D) for rural areas;
economic development (research and innovation);
education (education, training and training);
employment (employment and training).
A managing authority is designated by the participating EU countries to carry out verifications on the whole programme area. The managing authority must also be responsible for the audit of the programme.
Where an EGTC is designated, verifications must be carried out by or under the responsibility of the managing authority at least for those EU countries and non-EU countries from which there are members participating in the EGTC.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULATIONS APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 January 2014 and had to become law in the EU countries by 22.4.2014.
BACKGROUND
 
For more information, see:
‘European regional development goal’ on European Commission's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Regional development goal: the aim of which is to reduce disparities between regional development levels and to improve the level of economic, social and cultural development in the least developed regions of the EU. This goal is achieved by:
increasing the number of regions covered by regional cooperation programmes;
improving the quality and efficiency of regional cooperation activities;
encouraging regional integration;
promoting the integration of rural areas into the labour market;
enhancing regional integration in the economy;
providing technical assistance for regional cooperation. The aim of this goal is to provide technical assistance to regions with a high level of technical expertise in the fields of information and communication technology (ICT) and information society (ICT).
* Cross-Border cooperation: the goal of which aims to promote cooperation between EU countries’ regions in order to promote the exchange of information, communication and information technologies (ICTs) and to develop the knowledge and skills of the regions concerned.
Interregional or regional cooperation: cooperation between regions with an overall geographical area of more than 1 million km2.
MAIN DOCUMENT
  Еганска народна гранда барка (OJ L 183, 29.6.2013, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (e) No 550/2013 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
  ARTICLE 1 of the Treaty on the Functioning



Summary 159:
Cost-benefit analysis for energy infrastructure projects
Cost-Beneficiaries of investments in electricity and gas infrastructure
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 714/2009 on the harmonisation of energy system-wide cost-benefit analyses for projects of common interest
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out the criteria for evaluating investments in energy infrastructure* with a view to ensuring the public’s interests are taken into account in the decision-making process.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to:
electricity infrastructure projects;
gas infrastructure projects.
It does not apply to projects listed in Annexes I and III to Decision No 1364/2006/EC.
EU list of projects
Each EU country must submit a list to the European Commission and the European Network of Transmission System Operators (ENTSO) for Electricity and the ENTSO for Gas of all projects it considers to have a common interest, including:
feasibility and design studies;
approval by the national regulatory authority or by any other authority concerned;
construction and commissioning;
the permit granting schedule referred to in Article 10(4)(b) of the regulation.
The Commission publishes the EU list every 2 years.
National regulatory authorities must submit the final regional lists of projects to the Commission, together with any opinions as specified in the annex to the regulation, for each of the following categories of projects:
energy infrastructure:
transmission system,
gas transmission,
energy storage and distribution,
power generation,
water and wastewater treatment,
transport,
seaports,
marine transport,
land use,
industrial,
agriculture,
municipality,
other energy infrastructure.
In addition, the Commission must publish the methodology and criteria used to evaluate investments in infrastructure projects and the higher risks incurred by them and the results of the cost allocation decision.
Regulatory authorities must notify the Commission of all the information they have received from the public regarding:
cost allocation decisions;
procedures for public consultation;
cost-benefit assessments;
public consultations;
environmental impact assessments.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULTRY APPLY?
From 16 November 2013.
BACKGROUND
The European Commission adopted Regulation (EU) 2017/852 on the cost-benefits analysis of energy infrastructure (see summary). This regulation aims to ensure that the public has the right to benefit from the benefits of investment in infrastructure. It sets out a common approach to assessing the benefits and risks associated with energy infrastructure and the costs involved.
For more information, see:
Electricity and gas (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Electricity infrastructure: projects that are part of the transmission, distribution and distribution network of the European Union (EU).
* Gas infrastructure: infrastructure that is part of a network of gas transmission and distribution networks of the EU.
* Water and wastewater: water and wastewater.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Council Regulation (Euratom) No 852/2009
16.11.2009
-
OJ L 136 of 16.11-18.2009.
RELATED ACTS
Regulations (EC, Euratom) 2017-852/EEC and (EC), Euratom No 856/2009 of 16 November 2017 laying down detailed rules on the methodology to be used to assess the costs and risks involved in the European network of transmission system operators’ methodologies for a harmonised energy system–wide cost–benefit analysis at EU level.
See consolidated version.
Directive 2009/73/EC on the coordination of the regulatory authorities’ responsibilities in the field of energy and gas infrastructures (Official Journal C 202 of 22.12.2009).
See summary.
Communication from the Commission to European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions on the implementation of the Regulation on the common assessment of the costs of electricity infrastructure (COM(2014) 596 final of 31.3.2014).
last update 04.02.2016



Summary 160:
Online dispute resolution for consumer disputes (ODR) — EU rules on online dispute resolution (until 9 January 2016)
Online dispute Resolution for consumers (OLR)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 524/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 May 2013 establishing a European Union framework for resolving disputes arising from online transactions between consumers and traders
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes a common EU framework for the online resolution of disputes between traders and consumers over online transactions.
It aims to improve the resolution of online consumer disputes.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to all disputes arising out-of-court from online purchases. It does not apply to disputes that are initiated by a trader against a consumer.
EU countries must:
ensure that traders have a single point of contact for consumers seeking to resolve online transactions;
provide consumers with a single online complaint form to resolve disputes;
establish a dispute resolution platform for online transactions that have arisen from a trader’s sale of goods or services.
The ODR platform should take the form of an interactive website offering a single entry point of entry to traders seeking to settle disputes out of court. It should be easily accessible for consumers.
ADR entities* must provide a complaint form for consumers to lodge a dispute with a trader. The complaint form must contain:
the name and contact details of the trader;
the number and postal address of the consumer;
a description of the dispute;
an electronic translation function to allow the parties to have the information exchanged through the platform and to resolve the dispute translated, where appropriate.
Each ADR entity must provide at least two ODR advisors to help consumers resolve their disputes. The ODR contact points must also provide their email address so that consumers have a first point of communication with traders.
In addition, EU countries must encourage consumer associations and business associations to provide an electronic link to the website of the platform.
Disputes should be resolved by:
a dispute resolution agent (ADR entity);
a consumer association or business association;
one or more ODR experts.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULATIONS APPLY?
   
It has applied since 9 July 2013. EU countries had to incorporate it into national law by 9 July 2015.
BACKGROUND
The EU has adopted a number of measures to improve consumer protection, including:
Directive 2008/52/EC on the protection of consumers’ rights in the internal market (see summary);
Delegated Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 182/2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by EU countries of the Commission‘s exercise of implementing powers.
For more information, see:
‘Directive on online consumer redress’ on the European Commission's website.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Commission Implementing Regulation (EC) No 652/2013
9.7.2013
-
OJ L 165 of 18.6.2013, pp. 1-8
Amending act(s)
Commission Delegated Decision (EU), Euratom No 653/2013 (OJ C 202 of 27.6-28.2013)
See consolidated version.
RELATED ACTS
Commission Regulation (Euratom) 2015/856 of 27 June 2015 laying down rules for the establishment of a European Online Dispute Resolution (EDR) platform (ODR platform) (Regulation on consumer ODR) (Directive 2014/13/EU) (Official Journal L 347 of 28.7-31.2015)
Regulations (EU/2014/EU, Euratom and Euratom of 26 June 2014 on the registration of ADR entities and on the establishment and operation of ODR platforms (Directives 2014/14/EU and 2014/15/EU).
Commission Directive 2014/23/EU of 26 May 2014 establishing the European Electronic Disputes Resolution (EURO) (OFR) (See summary).
See summary.
Commission Decision 2014/24/EU on the setting up of an electronic complaint form (OCR) for online disputes between consumers, traders and businesses.
last update 04.01.2016



Summary 161:
Crop-specific and coupled support for farmers (CAP Regulation (EU) No 552/2013
Crop - specific and coupled assistance for farmers
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out the basic payment scheme and the single area payment scheme for farmers in the European Union (EU).
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to the following sectors and productions:
Cereals, oilseeds, protein crops, grain legumes, flax, hemp, rice, nuts, starch potato, milk and milk products, seeds, sheepmeat and goatmeat, beef and veal, olive oil, silkworms, dried fodder, hops, sugar beet, cane and chicory, fruit and vegetables and short rotation coppice.
It does not apply to:
agriculture, forestry, fisheries, forestry and aquaculture;
animal husbandry;
seeds and livestock production;
cotton and sugar beet production.
Sectors covered by the regulation are:
cereals;
oilseeds;
pesticides;
grain legumes;
fodder;
nutritional crops;
sugar beet;
fruit and vegetables;
vegetative crops.
Single area payment schemes
Each EU country must establish a national reserve for each of the following payment entitlements:
basic payment scheme;
single area payment;
redistributive payment; and
coupled support.
EU countries may use part of their national ceilings for direct payments for specific support in certain sectors or regions in clearly defined cases.
In addition, the European Commission may adopt implementing acts fixing the percentage of the national ceiling to be used for the redistribution of national aid.
The Commission must notify the European Parliament, the Council and the European Economic and Social Committee (ESC) every 2 years. The notification must include the following information:
the sector-specific financial envelope;
the maximum rate of transitional national aid, where appropriate.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULATIONS APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 January 2014.
BACKGROUND
The European Commission adopted the regulation on behalf of the EU.
For more information, see:
‘The European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD’ website.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EEC) No 550/2013 of 21 December 2013 on the implementation of the European Agricultural and Rural Development Fund (CAP) Regulation (OJ L 94, 1.1.2014, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EC) no 550/13 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
 
  барсканка:
Commission Implementing Decision 2014/852/EU of 25 November 2014 on the application of the Regulation on the Union’s agricultural and rural development Fund for the period 2014-2020
Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 852/2014 of the Council on the European Regional Development Fund and on the Common Agricultural Policy for the EU’ s Member States
Council Decision (Euratom) 2015/853 of 26 November 2015 on the common agricultural policy for the European Community’ and on its Member States’ accession to the European Neighbourhood Fund
Council Directive (EURatom) 2016/854 of 27 November 2016 on the establishment of a European Regional Agricultural Fund and repealing Council Decision (EC, EC) No 1082/2006 on the Community's contribution to the development of rural areas and to the sustainable management of land and water resources.
last update 04.01.2020



Summary 162:
EU support for the smaller Aegean islands
EU support programme for the small and medium-sized islands of the eastern Mediterranean (Aegean countries)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 1234/2011 — support programme to the smaller and medium sized islands of Greece
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes a European Union (EU)-wide support programme designed to help the smaller, medium and large-sized Greek islands to supply them with agricultural products and to support local agricultural production.
KEY POINTS
The regulation sets out the specific supply arrangements for the supply of agricultural products to these islands and the marketing of those products to the rest of the EU.
The programme covers a maximum annual amount of €23.93 million for the period 2014-2020. It is financed by the EU’s general budget.
Specific supply arrangements cover:
the supply of certain agricultural products;
the marketing of these products to non-EU countries and to the EU as a whole;
exports to third countries of products covered by the programme.
Eligible beneficiaries are:
farmers on the smaller islands;
operators of small-scale enterprises;
agricultural and forestry companies;
small-scale agricultural and forestry firms.
EU countries must notify the European Commission of the State aid they intend to grant to the beneficiaries. The Commission must adopt implementing acts laying down the procedures for assessing whether the amendments proposed comply with EU law and for deciding whether to approve the amendments.
In addition, the Commission may adopt delegated acts setting out the conditions for recording operators in the right to participate in the programme and providing for the full exercise of their rights to participate.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
   
It entered into force on 1 July 2011.
BACKGROUND
The European Commission has adopted a number of implementing acts on the implementation of the regulation, including:
Implementing Regulation (EC) No 1405/2006 establishing a European Agricultural Support Programme for the islands of eastern and southern Greece (see summary);
Implementation Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 552/2014 establishing a specific supply arrangement for the production of certain products for the export to the European Union and the EU countries of the south-eastern Mediterranean (See summary).
For more information, see:
Greece and the wider Mediterranean (European Commission).
* KEY TERMS
* Specific supply arrangement: a supply arrangement is an arrangement whereby a specific quantity of a product is supplied to a specific area of the country.
* Marketing: an arrangement where a particular product is marketed to a particular market.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (U.S.A. No 1233/2011 of 24 June 2011 establishing a support programme in the framework of the European Agricultural Fund for the Eastern Mediterranean (EASA) (OJ L 157, 1.7.2011, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (USA) No 633/2014 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
 
Regulating (EU), Euratom No 553/2014 of the Council of 11 May 2014 establishing a general supply agreement for the eastern and mid-sized European Union for the provision of certain goods and services to the south and southeast Mediterranean countries and the European Economic Area and repealing Council Regulation (EEC, EEA) No 1184/2006 of 24 July 2006 establishing a General Supply Agreement between the European Community and the Member States of the Mediterranean and the Republic of Cyprus.
Commission Implementing Decision 2014/552/EU of 27 May 2014 on the establishment of a specific Supply Agreement for the Mediterranean Sea and the Southern Atlantic Ocean (SASA).
Council Implementing Directive 2014/639/Euratom of 27 April 2014 on specific supply agreements for the southern Atlantic Ocean and the Western Atlantic Ocean for the promotion of the development of the maritime transport sector.
See consolidated version.
Directive 2014/4/EU on the European Maritime and Fisheries Union (EMFRA) and of the Sea Transport System (see consolidated version).
last update 04.02.2016



Summary 163:
Statistics on the carriage of goods by road (Road Transport Statistics Regulation)
Statistics on road Transport Statistical Regulation (RTSR)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 on the dissemination of statistical results in respect of the carriage by road
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out the rules for the transmission of EU-wide statistical results relating to:
vehicle;
journey;
goods.
It repeals Regulation (EC) No 1172/98.
KEY POINTS
EU countries must compile statistical data relating to the following areas:
carriage of goods on the road;
traveling;
the place of loading and unloading of goods road transport vehicles;
categories of dangerous goods.
The Commission must adopt implementing acts, by means of implementing acts adopted by the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union (EU), on the distribution of the results of these statistical results, including the structure and content of the data to be disseminated. The Commission may also adopt delegated acts to the EU countries concerning the collection, transmission and dissemination of these results.
Each year, EU countries must send the Commission:
data on:
the number of vehicles and the number of axles for combinations of vehicles used;
number of goods loaded and unloaded;
traffic classification of economic activities in the EU;
lists of administrative regions supplied by the third country concerned, for EU countries not contracting parties to the agreement on the European Economic Area (EEA).
The results must be transmitted to the Commission by the end of the first quarter of each year.
EU country concerned must transmit the results to the European Statistical System for Road Transport Statistics (ESTS) for the following years:
first quarter of 1999;
second quarter of 2000;
third quarter of 2001;
fourth quarter of 2002;
fifth quarter of 2003;
sixth quarter of 2004;
last quarter of 2006.
FROM WHEN DOES THE REGULE APPLY?
From 1 January 2011.
BACKGROUND
The European Commission is responsible for:
collecting, transmitting and disseminating statistical data on the movement of goods across the EU by road. It must:
ensure that the data collected are accurate and reliable;
use the statistical methods and methods specified in Annex I of the regulation;
carry out the statistical analysis of the traffic classification of the goods transported by road and of the categories of goods classified as dangerous.
For more information, see:
Road transport statistics (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
Vehicle: any vehicle that is capable of carrying goods over the EU’s external borders.
Journey: any journey in which goods are moved by road from one place to another.
Goods: any goods that can be moved over a distance of at least 1,000 km.
Categories of goods: any category of goods which can be divided into categories according to their risk of death or injury.
Dangerous goods: goods that are classified as hazardous to human health or safety.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 181/2011 of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning the exercise of implementing powers by Member States of the Commission of the EU in the field of road transport statistical results (Recast) (OJ L 127, 18.3.2011, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (Euratom) no 182/2012 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
Regulations (EC, EC, EEC, EEA) No 596/2006 and (EC), EC, EC and EEA No 597/2006 of the Council and of Euratom establishing a European Union statistical system for road transport statistics and repealing Regulations (EEC, EFTA) No 1272/96, (ECE) No 1369/98 and (EEA) no 1272-98 of the Parliament and of Council and Council Implementing Regulations (EC and EC) No 652/2006, (EU and Euratom), (EC (EURO) No 752/2008 and (EU/EC) no 753/2008, and repealing Council Regulation No 1273/2008 (EC).
Commission Implementing Decision (EUEC) 2015/852 of 25 November 2015 on the transmission and distribution of results of the statistical results from the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) on road transport.
See consolidated version.
Directive 2014/34/EU of the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe on the harmonisation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to road transport and on the collection and transmission of statistics on the transport of goods (Official Journal C 202, 28.11.2014, pp 1-2)
See summary.
Commission Decision



Summary 164:
EU rules on the service of judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil and commercial matters (Civil and Commercial Matters Regulation (EC) No 1348/2000)
EU rules governing the service in the Member States of judicial or extrajudicial document in civil or commercial matters
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC, No 1349/2008) on the provision of services for the transmission and delivery of judicial documents
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes a European Union (EU) system for the service and transmission of judicial, extrajudicial and commercial documents.
It sets out rules for the transposition, transmission and service of these documents in EU countries.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to:
jurisdiction of the sending and receiving agencies;
transmission of documents;
receipt of documents by receiving agencies.
Transmission and service
A receiving agency must send a receipt to the transmitting agency by the swiftest possible means of transmission using the standard form set out in Annex I.
The transmitting agency must serve the document or have it served, either in accordance with the law of the Member State addressed or by a particular method requested by the sending agency, unless that method is incompatible with the national law of that Member State.
When a document is transmitted from one EU country to another, it must be served by the receiving agency within 7 days of receipt.
If a document has been translated into another EU country’s national law, the sending or receiving agency has the right to refuse to serve it, unless the translation is incompatible.
the sending agency has a right of refusal.
In this case, the sender must inform the addressee of the reasons for its refusal. The sending agency must then inform the sender of the reason for the refusal and the date of service of the document accompanied by the translation.
EU countries are free to use consular or diplomatic channels to forward judicial documents, for the purpose of service, to those agencies which are designated pursuant to Articles 2 or 3 of the regulation. The designation may be renewed every 5 years.
FROM WHEN DOES THE REGULE APPLACE?
   
It has applied since 13 November 2008.
BACKGROUND
The European Judicial Network in Civil and Commercial matters (EJNICM) is a network of EU countries’ judicial and administrative authorities that facilitates the exchange of information on judicial and other judicial documents between them.
For more information, see:
European Judicial Network (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Judicial document: any judicial or other legal document that has been transmitted from a Member State to another for service there.
* Extrajudicial document: a document in which a person has been convicted of a criminal offence and has been sentenced to a prison term.
MAIN DOCUMENT
 
  барскаганка грандра какова   гакка, года  варка (OJ L 81, 13.4.2008, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EK) No 749/2009 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 04.02.2021



Summary 165:
Advance therapy medicinal products — EU rules on their marketing
Advancement in biomedicine — EU laws on their use
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 1394/2007 on advanced therapies for human use
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It lays down EU-wide rules on the marketing of advanced therapies* for the treatment of diseases and dysfunctions of the human body.
It applies to any of the following medicinal products:
a gene therapy medicinal product as defined in Part IV of Annex I to Directive 2001/83/EC (see summary);
a somatic cell therapy (SCT) medicinal product;
a tissue engineered product.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to:
advanced therapy medicines* for use in human beings;
somatic cell therapy medicines;
tissue engineered products;
combined advanced therapy medicines*.
It does not apply to products based on viable cells or tissues.
Authorisation procedure
The European Medicines Agency (EMA) must issue a marketing authorisation for an advanced therapy medicine before it can be marketed in the EU. This authorisation is valid throughout the EU and must be renewed at least every 5 years.
The committee for advanced therapies (Committee for Advanced Therapies) is responsible for the evaluation and monitoring of the products and for their marketing. It is composed of representatives of the European pharmaceutical companies, the European Commission and the European Society for Medicines Manufacturers’ Association (ESMA). It is chaired by a Commission representative. The Commission is assisted by a representative from each EU country. The committee’s remuneration is based on the number of authorised medicinal products it receives from the EU countries.
Risk management
The Commission must ensure that the products covered by the regulation comply with the essential requirements laid down in Annex I of Directive 93/42/EEC. It must also take into account the risks associated with the use of these products.
Advertising and promotion
Products covered by this regulation must:
be accompanied by a marketing information sheet;
have been approved by the Commission;
not contain any substances, such as cellular products*, bio-molecules, bio-materials, bio‐materials or chemical substances, scaffolds or matrices.
They must be accompanied by:
scientific advice;
clinical and clinical data;
pre-authorisation follow-up of efficacy and adverse reactions, and risk management;
marketing information sheet.
EU countries must inform the Commission of the number and type of medicinal products they have authorised and the names of the persons responsible for marketing them.
In addition, the Commission must be consulted by the committee on the evaluation of any other medicinal product which requires specific expertise falling within its area of competence.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
It entered into force on 1 January 2008.
BACKGROUND
   
For more information, see:
‘Advanced therapy medicines (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Genetically engineered medicinal product: a medicinal product is defined as a product based on a gene, somatic or tissue engineered cell or tissue.
* Cell therapy: a medicine based on cells, tissues or other biological material that has been genetically modified to have a therapeutic effect.
Somatic cell: a medical device which forms part of a combined advanced therapy.
Tissue engineered product: any medical device designed to be used to treat a disease or disorder. It may also contain additional substances.
MAIN DOCUMENT
 
  барганска гранка (OJ L 324, 10.12.2007, pp. 121-122)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EC, No 1393/2007 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
  ARTICLE
Communication from the Commission to the European Parliament and the Council: ‘Implementing Regulation (EU) No 726/2004 of 13 November 2007 laying down Community rules on marketing authorisations for advanced therapy medical products (COM(2007) 596 final, 15.1.2008)’
Commission Decision 2008/852/EC of 15 December 2008 on the application of Regulation (EEC, EC, Euratom) No 596/2008 on the regulation on the authorisation of medical devices for the use in the manufacture, presentation and sale of advanced therapeutic products for human beings (COM (2008) 597 final, 16.1).
Commission Implementing Decision 2009/853/EU of 16 December 2009 on the adoption of Implementing Regulation(EC, EEA) No 852/2009 on the registration and marketing of medicinal devices for human and veterinary use (EC(2009) 598 final, 17.1.).
Commission Regulation (OEC, EU) No 1082/2009 of



Summary 166:
EU type-approval system for motor vehicles and their trailers (Euro 6)
EU type–approval systems for motor vehicle and its trailers
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 552/2003 — type–approved motor vehicles
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out rules for the type–approval* and type–conformity* of motor vehicles, their trailers and components.
It aims to ensure that the European Union (EU) has a uniform and harmonised system for the approval and conformity assessment of vehicles.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to:
vehicles with a mass greater than 75 kg;
trailers weighing less than 100 kg.
Manufacturers’ obligations
The European Commission must:
ensure that vehicles approved under the regulation comply with the following requirements:
the vehicle meets the requirements of the EU’s harmonised fuel consumption and carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions standards;
have been tested and certified in conformity with the relevant EU technical specifications;
notify the competent national authority of the conformity assessment results;
make available to the public, independent operators and authorised dealers and repairers the technical specifications and information required for the fitting of parts or equipment on vehicles;
provide the competent authority of each EU country with information on the type approval and type conformity assessment procedure.
EU countries must ensure that manufacturers comply with these requirements.
National authorities must take all necessary measures to prevent, detect and report any infringements of the regulation. These include:
recall of vehicles that fail to conform with the regulation;
suspension of a vehicle if it is found to be in danger of failing to meet its conformity assessment requirements;
restrictions on the sale or installation of pollution control devices intended to be fitted on vehicles that are not of a type in respect of which a type approval has been granted in compliance with this regulation and its implementing measures;
the withdrawal of type approval if a vehicle is found not to comply with its type conformity assessments.
The competent authority may also impose penalties for infringements. The types of infringements are:
making false declarations during the approval procedures or procedures leading to a recall;
falsifying test results for type approval or in-service conformity;
withholding data or technical specifications which could lead to recall or withdrawal;
use of defeat devices;
refusal to provide access to information.
Implementing measures
The implementing regulation sets out a number of implementing measures, including:
a standardised method of measuring fuel consumption, carbon dioxide emissions and tailpipe emissions of vehicles, which must be used to determine the type of vehicle to be approved for the Euro 6 stage;
a system of conformity assessment for vehicles of the same type, based on a set of technical specifications, for each stage of the certification procedure;
rules on the number of types of vehicles to be authorised to be sold and registered in the EU;
measures to be taken against air pollution by emissions from motor vehicles (e.g. a ban on the placing on sale or putting into service of new vehicles that emit more than 10 tonnes of nitrogen oxide (NOx) and sulphur dioxide (SO2);
rules to prevent the placing into service or putting on the market of vehicles of different types that emit less than 5 tonnes of NOx;
requirements to be met for the installation of exhaust systems and exhaust systems.
FROM WHEN DOES THE REGULE APPLY?
   
It has applied since 2 January 2003. EU countries had to incorporate it into national law by 2 January 2013.
BACKGROUND
The EU has a comprehensive EU type approval system, established by Council Directive 70/156/EEC of 6 February 1970 on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to type approval of vehicles and trailers.
For more information, see:
Types of vehicles (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* CO2 emissions: the total number of tonnes of CO2 emitted from the exhaust system of a motor vehicle.
* Fuel consumption: the average fuel consumption per 100 kilometres of driving time.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member State
Official Journal
Commission Implementing Decision 2005/55/EC
2.1.2003
-
OJ L 302 of 10.12.2005
Amending act(s)
Entry INTO FORCE
Regulations (EC, EC, EC and EC) No 637/2003
2 January 2003
- (OJ C 202 of 28.5.2003, pp. 1-2)
Regulating (EC), EC, EEC, EEA, EC (EC and EC), EC and EEA) No 852/2004
2 June 2004
- Regulation (EC).
last update 04.02.2016



Summary 167:
EU list of authorised substances for use in foodstuffs
EU list on substances used in and on foods
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 1334/2008 — common procedure for the authorisation of substances in food for human consumption
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes a common EU list of substances that may be used in or on foods.
KEY POINTS
The European Union (EU) regulates the use of a wide range of substances, including food additives, food enzymes and food flavourings, in the production and handling of food. These substances must be authorised by the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA).
The EU’s food safety authorities must:
ensure that the substances on the EU list are not used in food;
assess the safety of the substances before they are placed on the market or used in foods;
identify the risks associated with the presence of a substance on the list.
The procedure for authorising a substance must be transparent and public information-free.
Applicants must provide the European Commission with:
the name and address of the applicant;
a clear description of the substance;
the justification for its use;
information that is relevant to the assessment of the safety;
an analysis method;
where applicable, the analysis method(s);
information concerning risk management.
If the Commission considers that a substance poses a risk to human health or the environment, it must inform the applicant and the reasons for not authorising it.
An application must be sent to the Commission within 9 months of receiving the application. If the Commission receives a valid application, it may decide to extend the period of application for a further 9 months. In such cases, it informs the applicant, the EU countries and the European Parliament, Council and Commission of the extension.
In addition, the Commission must consult the EFSA and the Member States’ organisations operating in the fields covered by its mandate. The Commission must also consult the European Medicines Agency (EMSA) if it considers that the application does not comply with the conditions laid down in each sectoral food law.
When a substance is added to the Community list, it is subject to the same conditions, specifications and restrictions as those applicable to the substances already on it. This means that it is not subject to any additional conditions or restrictions.
EU countries may, where appropriate, amend the non-essential elements of the EU law relating to the addition of a substances to the list and for adding, removing or changing conditions, specification or restrictions associated with its presence on the community list, in accordance with the regulatory procedure with scrutiny referred to in Article 14(4).
Where the Commission requests additional information from applicants on matters relating to risk management, it will determine, together with the applicant*, a period within which that information can be provided.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
The regulation entered into force on 20 January 2009.
BACKGROUND
The common procedure to authorise substances is the first step in the process of establishing a Community list of controlled substances. It is designed to ensure the transparency and public access to information on the substances covered by the regulation.
For more information, see:
‘The EU list’ on the European Agency for Food Safety and Consumers’ website.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force
Deadline for transposition in the Member State
Official Journal
Decision 2008/852/EC
20.1.2009
-
OJ L 168 of 20.7.2008
RELATED ACTS
Council Decision 2008/743/EC of 27 October 2008 on the common procedure on the authorisations of substances for the use in and of food for Human Consumption (OJ C 168 of 19.11.2008)
See consolidated version.
Commission Decision 2009/853/EC on the establishment of a common list for the Authorisation of Substances for the Use in or of Food for Human Consumption (COM(2009) 596 final of 20 December 2009)
last update 04.02.2015



Summary 168:
EU rules on accreditation, market surveillance, CE marking and controls of products from non-EU countries and the EU’s external trade in medicines
European rules on accredited products and the CE marking
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EEC) No 339/93 — general principles of the European conformity assessment, accreditation and market surveillance regime for products with the European Community (CE) marking
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out the general principles and procedures for the European Union (EU) Member States to apply to the European CE marking.
It aims to ensure that products covered by the regulation are safe and can be sold freely throughout the EU.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to the following products:
medical devices;
medical products for human and veterinary use;
motor vehicles;
personal protective equipment;
electrical products;
telecommunications equipment.
Accreditation
Member States must ensure that:
the CE marking is affixed to a product by a body recognised by the European Commission;
the body responsible for the accreditation has the necessary expertise and expertise to carry out its tasks;
accreditation certificates issued before 1 January 2010 remain valid until the date of their expiry, but no later than 31 December 2014.
The Commission may recognise more than one body at a time.
National accreditation bodies are subject to peer evaluation organised by the body recognised under Article 14 of the regulation. They must:
ensure that the products they accredit comply with the regulation;
establish, implement and maintain procedures for monitoring the performance and competence of the personnel involved;
monitor accidents and harm to health which are suspected to have been caused by those products; and
verify that corrective action has been taken;
follow up complaints or reports on issues relating to risks arising in connection with products subject to EU harmonisation legislation;
provide the Commission with information on any corrective action taken.
In addition, the regulation sets out procedures for:
monitoring the safety of products entering the EU market;
assessing conformity assessment results;
conducting market surveillance activities;
ensuring that the Commission has access to the information it needs to conduct market surveillance.
Activities eligible for Community financing include:
research and development programmes;
market surveillance activities.
Organisations that receive Community financing are required to:
conduct market surveillance;
identify, monitor and report to the Commission, the European Parliament, the Council and the European Economic and Social Committee any risks to public health and the environment that may arise from the use of the CE mark;
carry out market surveillance and market assessment activities in line with the requirements of EU policies and legislation.
Authorisation of accreditation
The European Commission may authorise a national accreditation body to issue a CE marking if it considers that a product meets the requirements laid down in the regulation and that it complies with its obligations. The body must consult relevant stakeholders. The Commission may also authorise the Commission to issue CE marking certificates to bodies that have been accredited by the Member States.
Consultation procedures
The Member States must establish procedures to ensure the correct implementation of the rules governing the EU CE marking, and to take appropriate action in the event of improper use of it.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
The Regulation has applied since 1 January 2009.
BACKGROUND
The CE marking has been the subject of a number of legislative acts, including:
Decision No 768/2008/EC on a common framework for the marketing of products (Official Journal C 120 of 16.5.2008);
Regulations (EC, EC, EC and EFTA) No 1/2009/EC and (EC), EC, EFTA and EC) No 2/2009 on the harmonisation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of Member States relating to the conformity assessment and the market surveillance of products.
For more information, see:
European conformity assessment (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* CE marking: a product with the EU conformity assessment or market surveillance marking. It is used to indicate that the product meets all the essential safety requirements of the EU legislation on the safety and health of human and animal life.
* Electrical equipment: a device that can be used to transmit electrical signals.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 338/93 of 27 October 1993 laying down general principles on the European system of conformity assessments, accredited products for the Community (OJ L 127, 28.10.1993, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EC)(1) No 336/93 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
Communication from the Commission — Implementing Decision (EU), Euratom and EC of 26 October 2009 on the application of the Community system of CE marking (COM(2009)



Summary 169:
EU-Iceland agreement on the arrest warrant and the surrender of non-EU nationals
EU–Iceland Agreement on the Arrest Warrant and the Surrender of Non-EU Nationals
SUMMARY OF:
Agreement between the European Union (EU) and its Member States and the Kingdom of Norway and the Republic of Iceland on the European arrest warrant for the purpose of prosecution or the execution of a custodial sentence or detention order
Decision on the signature, on behalf of the EU, and provisional application of the Agreement between the EU and the EU countries and Norway and Iceland
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE AGREEMENT AND OF THE DECISION?
The agreement aims to improve, in accordance with the provisions of this agreement, the surrender for prosecution or execution of sentences between, on the one hand, the Member States of the European Community (now the EU) and the European Economic Area (EEA).
The decision concludes the agreement with the European Court of Justice (ECJ).
KEY POINTS
The EU and Iceland agree to:
ensure that:
the arrest warrant is executed within the time limits set out in the agreement;
the requested person is surrendered as soon as possible on a date agreed between the authorities concerned.
The executing judicial authority of the issuing country decides whether the person is to be surrendered.
If the executing country considers that the person has not complied with the conditions of the agreement, it may refuse to execute the warrant.
In the event of multiple requests, the executing the warrant, it must notify the country of transit.
the executing country of the reasons for its decision. The country of origin must notify its decision by the same procedure.
When a person is in transit, the country in which he or she is staying must inform the country concerned of the reason for the decision.
EU countries must ensure that the requested person has the right to legal counsel and to be informed of the consequences of their decision. In addition, the requesting country must guarantee the person’s right to have access to a lawyer in the case of detention.
Where a person has been convicted of a criminal offence, they must be given the opportunity to appeal against the decision to surrender or to be handed over to another EU country.
An arrest warrant must be translated into the official language or one of the official languages of the executing state. The executing country must send a translation of the warrant to the national authorities of the other EU countries. The issuing country must then transmit it to the judicial authorities of those countries. If it is not possible to call on the services of the SIS, the issuing judicial authority may call on Interpol to transmit an arrest warrant. If an unscheduled landing occurs, the EU country must provide the authority designated pursuant to paragraph 2 with the information provided for in paragraph 1.
A person who has been arrested must be informed by the issuing state of the country to which he/she is being transferred. The person requested must be surrendered within 30 days of being handed over. If the execution is delayed, the execution must be carried out within 15 days of receiving the notification. The execution must take place in the country where the person was arrested.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
The Agreement entered into force on 1 June 2006.
BACKGROUND
   Â  харскигандранска грака (OJ L 136, 1.6.2006, pp. 1-8)
The Schengen acquis was signed in Vienna on 27 September 1996. It was amended by the agreement between the ECJ and the countries of the EEA on 27 June 2000.
For more information, see:
EU Arrest Warrant (European Commission).
MAIN DOCUMENTS
 
  наргоданка:
Council Decision 2006/126/EC of 27 May 2006 on the conclusion, on account of the accession of the Member State of Norway, of the Community to the Agreement on European Arrest Warrant for the purposes of prosecution and the subsequent extradition of its nationals to the European Member States (Codified version)
Agreements between the Community and the States of Iceland, of 1 June 2000 on the signing, on its behalf, and the provisional application, of an Agreement on Interrogation and Transfer of Arrest Warrant between the Member Countries and the State of Iceland (Codification of the Vienna Convention on the Protection of Human Rights) (Oj L 136/2006, p. 1)
Council Regulation (EC) No 596/2004 of 27 September 2004 on the interpretation of the Treaty on European Union relating to the arrest warrants issued by the European Judicial Authorities for the prosecution and execution of custodial sentences or detention orders.
Successive amendments to the agreement have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
Council Decision 2006/125/EC on



Summary 170:
Consolidated rules on the carriage of passengers and luggage by rail (Regulation (EC) No 552/2007)
Consolidating rules on carriage of passenger and luggage
SUMMARY OF:
Delegated Regulation (EU) No 550/2007 — carriage charges for international carriage by rail
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It lays down uniform rules for the carriage charges and carriage conditions for passengers and baggage by rail in the European Union (EU).
It aims to ensure that passengers and their luggage are not disadvantaged when travelling by rail.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to:
the carriage charge levied by the railway companies for international passenger and baggage carriage;
the general conditions of carriage for carriage; and
the passenger’s right of action in the event of death or personal injury.
The carriage charge is calculated according to the number of passengers. It must not exceed 8 000 units of account. The carriage charge may be waived or stipulated in certain circumstances, such as:
travel time;
availability of tickets, through tickets and reservations;
access to the ticket office;
refunds and compensation for delays;
service quality standards;
customer satisfaction surveys;
disputes between passengers and railway companies.
EU countries must ensure that the carriage charge and the carriage conditions are correctly calculated and applied.
Carriage charges are calculated in accordance with the EU legislation on carriage charges. The regulation does not apply to international passenger carriage.
Liability
The carrier is liable for:
delays;
traffic congestion;
delay of 60 to 119 minutes;
cancellation, late running of trains or missed connections;
missed connections and cancellations;
unavailability of the ticket price for a delay of 120 minutes or more.
In addition, the regulation sets out the liability of the carrier in the case of:
disclosure of lost or stolen luggage and vehicles;
deliberate failure to keep to the timetable;
failure to provide passengers with sufficient information;
non-availability of services for disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility.
Exemptions
The European Commission must report to the European Parliament, the Council and the European Economic and Social Committee every 5 years on the implementation of the regulation.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULATIONS APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 January 2008. EU countries had to incorporate it into national law by 1 January 2009.
BACKGROUND
The EU has a high level of consumer protection in the field of transport and the regulation is part of a package of measures designed to improve the quality of transport services in the EU.
For more information, see:
‘Railways’ on the European Commission's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Carriage charge: a charge charged by the rail company for the international carriage of a passenger or a passenger's luggage. It is calculated on the basis of the total number of kilometres covered by the carriage. It does not include:
ticket price;
distance travelled;
number of passengers;
time of departure;
duration of journey;
total number of hours of travel.
MAIN DOCUMENT
 
Council Decision 2007/548/EC of 26 September 2007 concerning carriage charges, carriage conditions and carriage obligations of the rail companies (OJ L 183, 1.1.2008, pp. 1-7)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EC, No 553/2007 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
  ARTICLE
  The European Commission’S communication ‘Consumer Policy Strategy 2002-2006’ sets out a high-level of consumer policy in the area of transport in accordance of Article 153(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Community. It sets out detailed rules on consumer protection for the transport sector.
Directive 91/440/EEC sets out rules on:
conditions for carriage charges;
consultation procedures;
information and consultation procedures; and,
customs and service quality standards.
Commission Regulation (EEC, Euratom) No 652/2006 of 22 June 2006 on the harmonisation of carriage charges between the rail operators and the railway undertakings.
See consolidated version.
last update 04.02.2016



Summary 171:
Statistics on education and lifelong learning: European Union (EU) statistical information on education (2010-2020)
Statistics on Education and Longevity
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 552/2008 on the production of statistics on education, lifelong learning and the participation of adults in lifelong learning
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out EU-wide rules for the collection and analysis of data on the European Union’s (EU), European Economic Area (EEA) and Member States’ (EU-SILC) education and training systems.
It aims to contribute to the implementation of the Lisbon strategy and to establish comprehensive lifelong learning strategies.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to statistics on:
students’ enrolment, including the characteristics of the students;
entrants;
graduates and graduations;
education expenditure;
educational personnel;
foreign languages learnt;
class sizes.
EU countries must collect data on all domestic educational activities regardless of ownership of, or sponsorship by, the institutions concerned (whether public or private, national or foreign) and of the education delivery mechanism.
Data must be collected in three domains:
participation;
participants’ participation;
experience and learning;
social and economic benefits of education.
The European Commission is assisted by the Statistical Programme Committee and the European Statistical System Committee (ESC).
The Commission is responsible for the processing and development of concepts and methods for data collection and the development of new statistical methods.
National authorities must take account of the capacities of the EU countries’ statistical capacities.
In addition, the Commission must take into account the capacity of the Member States to collect and analyse the results of pilot studies.
Implementation of the regulation is subject to the regulatory procedure with scrutiny provided for in Article 5a of Decision 1999/468/EC.
References
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Official Journal:
20.5.2008
-
OJurisdiction
Official Journal L 136 of 20.5.-
Last updated: 27.07.2010



Summary 172:
Statistics on energy consumption in the European Union (EU) (2008-2020) (Energy Statistics Regulation)
Energy statistics in the EU (2008 - 2020)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 552/2008 on energy statistics
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out the rules for the collection and transmission of EU-wide energy statistics.
It aims to improve the quality and comparability of the EU’s energy statistics and to ensure that they are comparable.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to:
energy supply and consumption;
energy demand;
transmission of energy statistics to the European Commission and the European Parliament and the Council;
the energy statistics collected by the European Statistical Programme Committee.
EU countries must submit their national energy statistics every 3 years to the Commission. These statistics cover:
the total energy consumption of households and the total consumption of energy-related products and services;
total consumption of electricity and electricity-related services.
The Commission transmits the energy statistics on a quarterly, monthly and short-term basis to the EU countries. The statistics are transmitted with the following frequencies:
annual;
monthly; and
short-term monthly.
Reporting
The energy statistics must be collected in the form of an annual report and a monthly report. They must include:
total energy consumption (total consumption and total consumption);
energy consumption (energy-related product and service consumption); and
energy production (energy production and services).
energy statistics must include the total energy consumed by households and households (energy consumption and services);
total electricity consumption (electricity, gas, oil, aviation, heating, heating and cooling, transport, etc.).
The European Commission must transmit the data to the national statistical authorities in each EU country by means of a standardised transmission system. The transmission system is based on the transmission of data by telephone, fax or electronic means. It is designed to allow the Commission to collect the information it needs for the purposes of its work.
In addition, the Commission may, on the request of an EU country, request exemptions or derogations from the regulation for those parts of the national statistics for which the collection would lead to an excessive burden on respondents.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
It entered into force on 1 January 2009.
BACKGROUND
The Energy Statistics Regulation (Euratom) is one of a series of legislative acts designed to improve and harmonise the quality of EU energy statistics, in order to improve comparability between EU countries’ energy consumption and their energy consumption.
For more information, see:
EU energy statistics (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Energy consumption: the total amount of energy used by households, households and businesses.
* Electricity consumption: total consumption, households’ total consumption and business activities.
Electricity production: total electricity consumption, including: electricity generated, electricity supplied, electricity generated and electricity consumed, electricity consumed by businesses, electricity produced and consumed, and electricity generated by households.
Transportation: total number of kilometres of road, rail, inland waterway, inland sea, inland air and inland waterways.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 550/2008 of 21 December 2008 on the collection of energy and consumption statistics (Energy Statistics Regulation) (OJ L 183, 28.12.2008, pp. 1-2)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EU, Eurat) No 555/2008 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
Regulations (EC (EC), (EC).
See consolidated version.
Communication from the Commission — Energy Statistics (COM(2014) 696 final, 26.3.2014)
Commission Implementing Decision 2014/852/EU of 26 February 2014 on the submission of the energy statistical report for the period 2014-2020.
last update 04.01.2020



Summary 173:
Passengers’ rights on the road — EU rules on the carriage of passengers by bus and coach
Passengers' rights onthe road — European rules on passenger transport
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 2006/2004 — the rights of passengers travelling by bus or coach
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to ensure that passengers who travel by public transport in the European Union (EU) enjoy the same level of protection as other passengers.
It sets out the rights and obligations of the passenger in relation to the transport contract.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to all passengers, irrespective of their age, disability, age or any other factor. It does not apply to:
people with reduced mobility;
passengers who are not covered by Directive 90/314/EEC (see summary);
travelers who do not have the right to travel on a package tour.
Passenger rights
EU countries must:
ensure that:
all passengers are entitled to a minimum level of passenger protection, including:
reasonable funeral expenses, including reasonable funeral expenses;
personal injury, including loss of or damage to luggage due to accidents arising out of the use of the bus;
compensation for death or personal injury;
adequate accommodation, accommodation, food, clothes and transport;
accessibility and information for passengers;
free of charge for disabled persons and persons who are in wheelchairs and other mobility equipment or assistive devices.
Carriers and terminal managing bodies must provide assistance free of charge to disabled passengers and persons with a reduced mobility, at least to the extent specified in the regulation’s annexes.
National enforcement bodies are responsible for ensuring that passengers are provided with the necessary assistance.
The European Commission must report to the European Parliament and the Council by 2 March 2016 on the operation and effects of the regulation.
FROM WHEN DOES THE REGULE APPLY?
   
It has applied since 2 March 2006. EU countries had to incorporate it into national law by 2 April 2007.
BACKGROUND
 
 Â  Â
  б  х 
For more information, see:
‘Passenger protection’ on the European Commission's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Passenger: a person who is the weaker party in the transport transport contract, who is not entitled to the full benefits of the contract, such as:
the right to a regular service;
traveler: any person who has a disability or reduced mobility.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Commission Implementing Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 605/2014
2.4.2014
-
OJ L 127 of 2.4.2014
Amending act(s)
Entry INTO FORCE
Entry Into force
Transposition in force
Deadlines for transposing into force
Final Act
Regulations (EU), Euratom and Euratom
1.1.2016
-   The United Kingdom (1.2.2016)
1 (1) of Euratom.
2) of the European Atomic Energy Community (1).
Amendments and corrections to Regulation (Euratom) 2016/605
1(1) and (2) have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 04.02.2016



Summary 174:
Statistics of aquaculture
Statistics of aquatic organisms
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 852/2008 on the submission of EU fisheries statistics
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out the rules for the collection and compilation of EU-wide fisheries statistics.
It aims to contribute to the development and management of the EU’s fisheries sector.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to:
fisheries, including aquacultural production;
aquaculture, including production from hatcheries and nurseries offered for sale;
capture-based and production of molluscs and aquatic plants;
fishing areas for statistical purposes.
EU countries must submit to the European Commission, the European Statistical System Office (ESO) and the Standing Committee for Agricultural Statistics the following data:
total production by volume in terms of fish and aquatic species;
total annual production by weight of aquatic plants.
The data must be collected in the form of surveys, surveys and surveys. The Commission must submit the data to the ESO and the standing committee for agricultural statistics in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 1198/2006 on the European Fisheries Fund (see summary).
The European Commission is responsible for implementing the regulation. It is assisted by the European Agricultural Statistics Committee (EASC).
It must submit a methodological report every 3 years on the results of the data collected. The report must include:
the methods used for collecting, compiling and compiling the data;
a description of the sources for each type of data collected;
the number of surveys and the methods used to collect the data.
Annex I and II of the regulation specify the types of data to be collected, including the methods of sampling, sampling and surveys;
annex III specifies the methods to be used to gather the data for each category of data, including:
participation of individuals in surveys and interviews;
methods of collecting, collecting and compiling data; and
the format for the methodological report.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
  
It entered into force on 1 January 2008.
BACKGROUND
The EU fisheries sector is one of the most important fisheries sectors in the EU and contributes to the EU's total fisheries production. The EU has the largest share of the total fisheries sector in the world.
For more information, see:
EU fisheries statistics (European Commission).
* KEY TERMS
* Aquaculture: the practice of collecting specimens from the wild and their subsequent use in aquagulture.
* Fishing areas: fishing areas in which fish are caught and processed.
ACT
Council Regulation 2008/852/EC of 23 June 2008 on the collection, compilation and submission of Community fisheries statistics and repealing Regulation No 788/96 (OJ L 183, 28.7.2008, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EC, No 782/2008 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 04.02.2016



Summary 175:
Convention Area for the Conservation and Management of Fishery Resources in the Mediterranean (Cotonou Convention)
Convention area for the conservation and management of fishery resources
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 1224/2009 on the implementation of the Convention Area Regulation on the conservation, management and sustainable management of fisheries
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes a European Union (EU) framework for multilateral cooperation on the management and conservation of fisheries within the Mediterranean Sea Convention Area.
It aims to promote cooperation between EU countries and non-EU countries in the area defined by the Convention.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to:
fishing vessels that are authorised to fish in the convention area;
non-concerning parties that are not fishing in that area.
EU countries must:
ensure that non-conforming parties to the convention do not take part in transshipments and joint fishing operations;
assign inspectors to the scheme to carry out surveillance and inspection (NEAFC inspectors);
encourage cooperation between non-contributing parties to ensure that their vessels comply with the regulation’s rules.
The regulations set out the following measures:
the number of inspections to be carried out;
the frequency of inspections based on fleet size, taking into account the time spent by fishing vessels in the region;
reporting on the quantities held on board when entering the area and when transhipment and transshipment;
all catches taken inside the area; and
the quantity of fish on board.
stowage and transhipments.
Monitoring and inspection
EU fishing vessels must send a sighting report to the flag state of the vessel concerned, to the Commission or the body designated by it and to the NEAFC Secretary. The report must include the following information:
number of fishing vessels registered in the EU;
number and quantity of catches taken;
quantities of fishing gear and equipment on board;
transshipments;
total number of vessels involved in tranships;
exceptions to the regulation.
Non-contacting parties must report on their fishing activities to the European Commission. The data contained in such reports must be accessible to the commission on request.
Inspections
The European Commission must carry out inspections to ensure the proper functioning of the scheme. It must transmit a copy of each sighting report for every vessel without delay, by electronic transmission in the form set out in accordance with Article 50(2) of the regulation, to its flag state, the European Maritime Safety Agency (EMSA), the European Fisheries Management Agency (EFSA) and the European Union Agency for Fisheries and Aquaculture (EFMA).
The Commission must also send a report on the number of vessel sighting and inspection reports it receives every year to the EU countries’ fisheries management authorities.
If a vessel is found to have infringed the rules, it must inform the EU country in which it is registered and inform the Commission of the reasons for the infringement. The Commission must then inform the European Economic and Social Committee (EASC) and, where appropriate, the Council of the EU.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULATIONS APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 May 2009.
BACKGROUND
The Convention on the Conservation, Management and Sustainable Management of Fishes (CCMSA) is a multilateral agreement between the European Community and its Member States. It aims to ensure sustainable and rational management of fishing resources in the marine environment.
For more information, see:
Fishery conservation: Convention Area (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Non-concontinating party: a party that is not fishing within the convention.
* Transshipment operation: the unloading of all or any fishery products on board a fishing vessel onto another fishing vessel.
MAIN DOCUMENT
 
  барска: Regulation (EC, No 1223/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a framework for the implementation, on the basis of Article 1(1) of Article 2(3) of Council Regulation (EEC, Euratom) No 652/2009, of the Agreement on the Convention of the Parties to the Convention on Conservation and sustainable Management of Fisheries (OJ L 127, 29.5.2009, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EU, Euram) No 2012/2009 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 04.02.2021



Summary 176:
EU Ecolabel — rules on the labelling of food and feed products
EU ecolabel – rules on packaging and labelling
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 552/2009 on the European Union Ecolabels
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
   
 
It sets out rules on labelling, labelling and the EU ecolabel*, the EU’s official name for products that meet certain essential environmental characteristics.
It aims to improve the quality of food, feed and animal feed and to ensure that products are marketed and sold in the EU with a high degree of eco-friendliness.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to:
food and feed;
animal feed and veterinary medicinal products;
medical devices;
consultancy services.
The European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) is responsible for administering the regulation. It is assisted by the European Bureau of Food Safety (EFSSA) and the European Commission. The European Union Bureau of Animal Health (Euratom) assists the Commission in the implementation of the regulation, and the Commission participates in its development and revision.
Ecolabel criteria are developed by a working group composed of representatives from the EU and non-EU countries. The working group meets at least twice a year. The Commission participates at least once a year in those meetings.
Each year, the working group draws up a list of products that are eligible for the EU Ecolablabel. It must highlight the criteria corresponding to the key environmental characteristics (e.g. water, air, soil, soil and water quality, etc.).
The Commission adopts the list and publishes it in the Official Journal of the EU. It also publishes a manual for potential users.
EU Eligible products must meet the following criteria:
good manufacturing practice (GMP);
good hygiene;
good product management;
environmental performance;
competent bodies.
Consultants must carry out a conformity assessment of each product before it can be awarded the EU colabel. The competent body must be independent of the competent body and must have the ability to carry out the conformity assessment.
If a product does not meet the criteria, it must be subject to a risk assessment to determine whether the product meets the criteria.
In addition, the competent bodies must ensure that:
the product has been tested and certified as organic;
the products have been tested in accordance with the requirements laid down in the regulation; and
the competent body has carried out the assessment and the product has not been altered or altered in any way that would cause it to fail to comply with the criteria;
there has been no significant change in the quality or environmental status of the product.
A European Commission working group is set up to develop the EU ECOLABEL criteria. The committee is chaired by the Commission and comprises representatives of the Commission, the European Environment Agency (EEA) and other interested parties.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
It has applied since 20 October 2009.
BACKGROUND
The EU eColabel is the EU system of labelling that applies to products that meets the essential environmental requirements of the Convention on the Conservation of Pollutants in Food and Feed (COPF).
For more information, see:
‘The European Union’ on the Commission's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Organic: a product that meets all the essential requirements of COPF and that is not intended for human consumption. It does not contain any substances that are likely to harm the environment or that have an adverse effect on human health or the environment.
ACT
 			
  The European Parliament and the Council of 11 October 2009 on the Union EColabel (OJ L 183, 20.10.2009, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EC, No 553/2009 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 04.02.2016



Summary 177:
Protection of medicinal products from patent infringement
Protection against patent infringements
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 552/2006 on the protection of medicines derived from basic patents
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out rules for the granting of a certificate of protection to medicinal products derived from a basic patent.
It aims to encourage the development of medicines that are the result of long-term, costly research.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to all medicinal products which have been granted authorisation to be placed on the market as a medicinal product in the European Union (EU). It does not apply to products that have not been patented.
The certificate is granted to the holder of the basic patent or his successor in title. It is valid for a period of 5 years. The duration of the protection granted by the certificate must be such as to provide adequate effective protection. It may be revoked at any time by the competent authority of the EU country where the certificate holder surrenders it or withdraws it.
To obtain a certificate, the applicant must submit an application for an extension of the duration. The application must contain at least the following information: the name and address of the applicant;the number of the patent;the title of the invention;the name of the body responsible for authorising the product to be marketed in the EU and the number and date of the authorisation granted to place the product on the EU market.
An application for a certificate must also contain:
the product’s number and the date of authorisation;
the number and number of authorisations to apply for the certificate;
where applicable, the product identified in that authorisation.
A certificate may not be granted for more than 5 years, unless it is granted for a duration exceeding 5 years;
an annual fee must be paid by the holder.
EU countries may require that the certificate be subject to the payment of annual fees.
In addition, the certificate conferring the same rights as conferred by the patent and is subject to limitations and the same obligations as that conferred by that patent. The certificate may also be revoked if it is no longer effective or if it has expired or if the holder has not surrendered it or the product no longer meets the conditions laid down in the regulation.
Where an application is rejected, it must be published in the Official Journal. The notification must contain the following:
at the end of the period provided for in Article 13 of the regulation;
if the annual fee is not paid in time;
any indication that the application includes an application to extend the duration;
whether or not the product covered by a certificate has been withdrawn.
Expiry of the certificateThe certificate expires at the end, at least, of the 5-year period in which it was granted.
Authorisation to place on the European market
The authorisation must be granted in accordance with Directive 2001/83/EC. The authorisation may be withdrawn if the product is withdrawn or withdrawn for any number of reasons, including:
it has not been authorised;
it no longer satisfies the conditions set out in this regulation; or
the authorisation has expired.
Implementation
The European Medicines Agency (EMSA) is responsible for administering the certificate. It must:
ensure that the certificates are valid for at least 5 years and that they are valid throughout the EU;
notify the competent authorities of all EU countries of the validity and validity of the certificates;
provide them with the information they require in order to carry out their tasks.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
   
It applies from 1 January 2007. EU countries had to incorporate it into national law by 1 January 2008.
BACKGROUND
 
  The regulation codifies and repeals Regulation No 1901/2006/EC (see summary).
For more information, see:
Protected medicinal products (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Basic patent: a patent granted by a patent holder to a pharmaceutical company for the purpose of protecting its products.
* Certificate of protection: a legal instrument granting the right to use a product for the purposes of patent protection.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 529/2006 of 21 December 2006 on the granting, on behalf of the European Community, of a Certificate of Protection to Medicinal Products derived from Basic Patents (codified version) (OJ L 136, 28.12.2006, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (Euratom) no 529/06/2006 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 04.02.2016



Summary 178:
Convention on jurisdiction and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters (Lugano Convention)
Convention of Lugano
SUMMARY OF:
Decision (EU) 2016/852 — conclusion of the Convention on Jurisdiction and Enforcement of Judgments in Civil and Commercial Matters
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE CONVENTION AND THE DECISION?
The convention aims to ensure that judgments are recognised and enforced throughout the EU.
The decision concludes the convention on behalf of the European Community (now the European Union (EU).
KEY POINTS
The parties to the convention agree to:
recognise and enforce judgments issued by a court in another EU country that is bound by the convention;
apply for a declaration of enforceability of judgments issued in that country;
appear before a court that has jurisdiction in the case of a dispute arising from a judgment issued in another country.
Judgments issued in a civil or commercial dispute may be declared enforceable in any EU country where they are recognised or enforced.
A judgment is recognised and enforceable where it is entered into by:
a court which has jurisdiction over the dispute;
the court with which an appeal is lodged; or
the courts of another country bound by this convention.
Appeals
An appeal must be lodged in a court with jurisdiction. The appeal must contain all the information necessary to establish that the judgment is enforceable. The court must give its decision without delay. The parties must also provide a copy of the judgment.
An application for a court to declare a judgment enforceable must be accompanied by the following information:
the name of the court which issued the judgment, the date of entry into force and the date on which the judgment entered into force.
the number of parties involved in the dispute and the nature of the dispute
the amount of money involved and the amount of time that has elapsed since the judgment was issued.
If the court in question has jurisdiction, it must grant the judgment and the judgment must be enforced in the country where the appeal was lodged.
Where a judgment has been issued in one party’s jurisdiction, the judgment in the other party must also be recognised in the court of jurisdiction of the country in which it was entered. The judgment must also contain a certificate of authenticity.
In addition, the parties to a dispute must provide the court with all the necessary information in order to determine whether or not the judgment has jurisdiction.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
 
   கமி  
The Convention entered into effect on 1 January 2017.
BACKGROUND
 ெ  কை  𝕷ற  ་  ̱ ང ె 
For more information, see:
‘Judges’ on the European Commission's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Judgments: judgments that are binding on a court, tribunal or other court of law. They may be issued by the court or tribunal of one party to a court of another party.
MAIN DOCUMENTS
Council Decision (EEC) No 852/2016 of 21 December 2016 on the conclusion of, and provisional application for provisional application of, the Conventions on Justice and Justice Enforcement in Civil And Commercial Matters (OJ L 347, 28.12.2016, pp. 1-8)
Council Resolution of 21 November 2016 concerning the conclusion, by the Council of the EU of the Community, of the Convention on Justice, Justice, Peace and Justice in Civil & Commercial Matters between the European Communities and the European Atomic Energy Community and its Member States, and repealing the Protocol on the Law of the Court of Justice of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, and of the Protocol relating to the law of the State of Ireland, as amended by the Protocol of the Council concerning the law on the law and law enforcement in civil & commercial matters.
Successive amendments to the Council Resolution have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 596/2014 of 22 December 2014 on the implementation of the Treaty on the Functioning of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (Euratom).
last update 04.01.2020



