Summary 0:
UCITS — rules on marketing and investment in transferable securities (UCITS) (until 31 December 2019) (see summary)
UCITS – rules on managing and marketing UCITS (until 1 January 2021)
SUMMARY OF:
Directive (EU) 2019/856 — rules for marketing and marketing in the field of UCITS
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DIRECTIVE?
It aims to improve the transparency of the EU’s financial services sector by setting out common rules for the marketing and communication of UCITs (see below).
KEY POINTS
The directive applies to all UCITS* and their managers.
It does not apply to:
social entrepreneurship funds (SMEs);
investment funds (i.e. small and medium-sized enterprises);
mutual funds (MSFs); and
investor-owned enterprises (IOPs).
It also applies to funds that are not covered by the directive, such as pension funds, pension funds and mutual funds.
The rules apply to the following types of investment vehicles:
investors’ funds;
management companies;
investments in UCITS managed by AIFMs, EuVECA managers or EuSEF managers;
managed by a management company.
Management companies must:
ensure that:
all UCITS are managed by the same person or company;
have the same legal personality;
provide the same level of protection to the investors;
use the same investment product or service to all investors, irrespective of their nationality or place of domicile;
apply for the same type of investment;
are subject to the same conditions as other investment vehicles;
follow the same internal and external investment vehicles.
They must also:
notify the European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) and the competent national authorities in the EU and the European Investment Bank for the Investment Industry (EIB) of the information they provide to the public on the UCITS they manage;
not disclose information on their activities to the general public;
report to the EIB and to the European Commission on the activities they undertake to market UCITS;
inform the Commission and the national authorities of the content or of the addressees of pre-marketing, and of any conditions or requirements other than those set out in this directive, before they engage in marketing activities.
In addition, the directive sets out common principles concerning fees or charges that UCITS managers must charge to investors.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS DIRECTIVE APPLY?
The legislation has applied since 2 February 2019. EU countries had to incorporate it into national law by 2 February 2021.
BACKGROUND
The UCITS directive is one of a series of measures designed to modernise the financial sector. The other measures are:
Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2018/849 on the European Pillar of Social Rights and the establishment of a European Union Investment Fund for Social Entrepreneurship (UCIF);
Directives 2014/65/EU on markets in financial instruments and amending Directive 2002/92/EC and Directive 2011/61/EU;
Delegated Regulation (EU), Euratom Regulation (EC) No 596/2014 on the supervision of financial institutions and the prudential supervision of credit institutions and investment firms;
Regulations (EU and Euratom).
For more information, see:
‘UCITS and social entrepreneurship funds’ on the Commission's website.
KEY TERMS
* UCITS: an investment vehicle in the form of a transferable investment fund.
* Social entrepreneurship fund: a fund that invests in the social entrepreneurship of individuals and companies in the European Union (EU).
* Investment vehicle: a financial instrument that is open to all individuals, companies and entities, whether they are individuals or companies.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Directive (EU)* 2019/884 of 3 February 2019 laying down rules on the marketing of and marketing of certain types of undertakings and UCITS and repealing Directive 2009/64/EC (OJ L 183, 4.4.2019, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Directive (EC, Euram) 2019 /884 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
Regulating (EU/EU, EC) No 696/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2013 laying down common principles for the supervision and supervision of the activities of the Member States’ Investment Funds and establishing an Investment Fund Regulation (Euratom) and repealing Directives 2006/48/EC, 2006/49/EC or 2006/52/EC of the Parliament and the Council and Commission Directives 2004/60/EC on the establishment and functioning of the Single Supervisory Mechanism and 2006/54/EC in the Community and Directives 2009/65 and 2011/



Summary 1:
Ensuring the enforcement of EU harmonisation legislation on products
 Ensuring the enforceability and effectiveness of EU legislation
SUMMARY OF:
Implementing Regulation (EU) 2019/515 — enforcement of certain Union harmonisation measures
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to ensure that EU countries’ national market surveillance authorities (MSA) and the European Commission work together to ensure the effective enforcement of the EU’s harmonised rules on the sale of certain products.
It sets out the rules and procedures to be followed by MSA and the Commission when enforcing these rules.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to:
all products on sale in the EU, whether or not they are manufactured or manufactured in another EU country;
all goods imported into the EU from non-EU countries, whether they are intended to be sold on the EU market or not;
new products entering the EU;
non-EU-registered products which are subject to EU legislation.
The legislation applies to all products, including:
goods imported from outside the EU and goods imported from the EU.
Controls on products:
EU countries must ensure that:
manufacturers, importers, distributors and other economic operators comply with the legislation;
the information and communication system (ICSMS) is up-to-date and accessible to the Commission, the European Border and Coast Guard Agency (ECBAR) and national customs offices;
market surveillance authorities are informed of any changes to the legislation and take the necessary measures to ensure compliance with it;
importers and importers comply with it.
Importers must inform the Commission of any new products they wish to place on the market and inform the competent national authorities of the reasons for their decision.
National authorities must:
ensure that the information provided in the regulation is entered into the ICSMSAs soon as a product is found to be a non-compliant product, the Commission must take all necessary measures.
Where a national authority concludes that a product does not comply with EU legislation, it informs the Commission and the other EU countries of its decision and informs them of the reason.
If the Commission considers that a national measure is justified in accordance with the applicable safeguard procedure, or where no market surveillance authority has concluded the contrary as referred to in Article 11(9), the Commission may adopt an action to prevent the product from being put on sale.
FROM WHEN DOES THE IMPLEMENTATION APPLY?
The implementing regulation has applied since 1 January 2021.
BACKGROUND
The EU has been working towards harmonising its laws on products for more than a decade.
For more information, see:
Regulation (EU).
KEY TERMS
* Importers: any person, business, organisation or other person, company or organisation with a legitimate interest in selling a product.
* Distributor: any business or organisation that sells a product for profit.
ACT
Commission Implementing Regulation(EU) 2017/1369 of 4 July 2017 setting a framework for energy labelling and repealing Directive 2010/30/EU (OJ L 198, 28.7.2017, pp. 1-8)
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Decision of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 on the harmonisation of the laws of the Union Member States relating to the making available on the European Union market of non-automatic weighing instruments and repealing Council Directive 98/79/EC and Commission Decision 2010/227/EU and Commission Regulation (EC) No 952/2013 (Official Journal L 96, 29.3.2014, pp 1-2)
Amending act(s)
Entry INTO FORCE
Transposition into force: Date of expiry of the validity of the act
Date of entry into force (if different from the date indicated in the original act)
Deadlines for transposing in the Official Journal
Regulations (EC, EFTA, Euratom and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland)
1.1.2020
-
OJ C 202, 7.8.2020, p. 1)
RELATED ACTS
Council Regulation (Euratom) 2018/1725 of 27 June 2018 on the enforcement and supervision of EU competition law and amending Regulations (EC and EFTA) No 596/2004, (EC), (EC)(1) and (EU), and repealing Decision 2004/7/EC of the General Assembly and Council of 5 April 2017 on in vitro diagnostic medical devices and repealing Commission Decision 2007/856/EC (Official J L 168, 5.6.2018, pp. 1-7)
Regulating (EU, Eurom) 2019 / 582/EU of 26 June 2019 on the protection of consumers’ health and safety and repealing



Summary 2:
Retransmission of television and radio programmes — licensing and remuneration of rights and retransmission services
Retransmissions of television or radio programmes – licensing and payment of rights
SUMMARY OF:
Directive 2014/36/EU — licensing of rights for retransmissions
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DIRECTIVE?
It aims to ensure fair competition in the licensing of broadcasting and radio rights in the European Union (EU).
KEY POINTS
The directive applies to the licensing and licensing of the rights of broadcasters to retransmit their programmes to the public.
It does not apply to:
the rights of rights holders (e.g. authors, producers, etc.) who are represented by collective management organisations (i.e. collective management bodies that represent the interests of all the rights holders in a collective management organisation);
the right of the broadcaster to make a payment for the right to transmit a programme to a retransmitter;
rights holders who are not represented by that collective management body.
This directive does not affect the licensing or licensing of copyright and other intellectual property rights.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS DIRECTIVE APPLY?
Decision (EU) 2016/849/EU has applied since 1 January 2017.
BACKGROUND
   
 
The EU has adopted a number of measures to ensure that the EU-wide licensing of broadcast rights is fair and transparent.
For more information, see:
‘Licensing of broadcasting rights’ on the European Commission’s website.
KEY TERMS
* Collective management organisation: an organisation that manages the collective management of collective management agreements between broadcasting organisations and operators of retransmitting services.
* Retransmission service: a service that allows viewers to watch, listen or listen to a programme on the internet.
MAIN DOCUMENTITY
 			
 хх		  	х   (European Commission Directive 2014/35/EU)
  (OJ L 347 of 29.12.2014, pp. 1-8)
RELATED DOCUMENTS
                   \\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\		(1)
Commission Directive 2001/29/EC Regulation (EC) No 596/2001 of 11 December 2001 establishing a European Union framework for the protection of copyright, intellectual property and related rights (recast rights directive) and repealing Directive 93/83/EEC (retransmission rights directive).
Successive amendments and corrections to Regulation 2001/98/EC have been incorporated in the basic text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 04.01.2017



Summary 3:
The.eu top-level domain name (TLD)
The.eu Top-Level Domain Name
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) 2019/849 — the.eu Top Level Domain Name and the establishment of a registry
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
   
 
It aims to establish a registry for domain names under the top level domain (‘.eu’) name.
It sets out the rules and procedures for the establishment and management of the registry.
KEY POINTS
The registry is managed by the European Commission and is responsible for:
designating the domain name ‘.eu*’;
registering domain names;
receiving and revoking domain names.
The regulation sets out a number of conditions for the registry, including:
the conditions under which domain names are registered;
the criteria for the selection of the registrar;
rules for the revocation of domain names and for the registration and revocation of.eu names; and
the terms and conditions relating to the registry’s management.
Registry
The Commission designates the registry under the regulation and appoints the registry registrar. The Commission is assisted by an Advisory Group composed of representatives of stakeholders established outside the EU. The Advisory Group may include one representative of EU countries and one representative from non-EU countries.
A registry is established by the Commission and the Registry must comply with the principles of non-discrimination, transparency and fair competition. It must:
be independent and transparent;
cooperate with the EU countries’ national registrar systems;
be free of charge;
operate in accordance with the rules laid down in Regulation (EC) No 733/2002 (see summary);
be open to the public;
not discriminate against any person or organisation established in the EU without prejudice to the application of national law;
provide services to undertakings with whom it competes on downstream markets.
Registration and revocation
The Registry is managed and administered by the Registry. It is open to all persons, organisations and natural persons within the EU who wish to register a domain name under the TLD. It may also be used by organisations established in other EU countries, but not established in an EU country.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
The domain name is reserved for the European Union (EU).
It is valid until 12 October 2022.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Decision No 549/2019/EU
12.12.2019
-
OJ L 157 of 12.12 of the same day
Amending act(s)
Date of entry into force
Final Act
Entry in force
Dateof expiry (if different from the date of application)
Regulations (EC, Euratom) No 1201/2014 and (EC), Euratom No 1202/2014
1.1.2014
2.2.2015
3.1 2016
4.3.2016
5.4.2017
6.5.2018
7.6.2019 (OJ C 202 of 14.7.2014).
RELATED ACTS
Regulating (EU, Euram) No 596/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 March 2014 on the establishment, on behalf of the Union, of a Top Level domain name and repealing Regulation (EEC) 733 (O J L 347, 14.9.2014, pp. 1-8)
See consolidated version.
last update 04.01.2015



Summary 4:
Cohesion Fund 2021/2021 — funding for transport, energy and digital infrastructure projects
Cohesion fund 2021/2020 — financing for transport and digital infrastructures projects
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) 2021/1921 establishing the European Cohesion Fund
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
 
It sets up the European cohesion fund (CEF), which aims to provide financial support for the development of innovative infrastructure projects in the transport and energy sectors.
KEY POINTS
The CEF is the main instrument of the EU’s common investment policy (CEP) and is funded by the European Investment Bank (EIB) and the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF).
The regulation sets out the eligibility criteria for projects to be eligible for funding under the CEF.
Eligible actions
The following actions are eligible for CEF funding:
transport infrastructure projects: projects that contribute to the transition to low emission energy and mobility* and that improve security of supply, while seeking greater energy independence for the EU;
infrastructure projects that improve the mobility of people, goods, capital and services;
energy infrastructure projects that support the growth and competitiveness of the transport sector;
digital infrastructure projects.
Projects are eligible if they meet the following criteria:
they contribute to:
improving the efficiency of transport infrastructure;
increasing energy efficiency;
reducing energy consumption;
fostering the use of renewable energy;
creating jobs;
contributing to the sustainable development of the energy and transport sectors;
inclusive of all EU countries;
providing a high-quality, safe and secure transport infrastructure.
The European Commission is responsible for the selection and evaluation of eligible projects and the selection of the projects to receive funding. The CEF supports the following types of projects:
public-private partnerships;
investment projects;
research and innovation projects; and
projects in the digital sector.
In addition, projects may be eligible under the following the following conditions:
the project must be carried out in an EU country;
the total cost of the project must not exceed €1.5 billion;
a maximum co-financing rate of 30% of the total cost.
EU countries are responsible for monitoring, monitoring, evaluating, evaluating and controlling the results of these projects, and for ensuring that they are recognised and evaluated.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
It has applied since 1 January 2021.
BACKGROUND
   
The EIB and the ERDF are the main instruments of the European investment policy.
For more information, see:
‘The European Investment Fund’ on the European Commission's website.
MAIN DOCUMENT
 			  	 	
Council Regulation (EU), Euratom, Euratom and the Council of 11 December 2021 establishing the Community Cohesion fund and repealing Regulation (EC) No 182/2011 (OJ L 347, 12.12.2021, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (Euratom) No 231/2011 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
  (1)
  The European Commission adopts Implementing Decision 2014/856/EU of 12 December 2014 establishing the Cohesion and Innovation Fund and repealing Decision (EU, Euram) No 1296/2013 (OCT) No 1/2014 and Commission Implementing Decisions 2014/966/EU, 2014/10/EU and 2014/11/EU.
last update 04.01.2020



Summary 5:
Removal of terrorist material from the EU’s digital single market
Removals from the European single market: removing terrorist material
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 596/2004 on the removal of terrorist content from the internal market
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
 
   
It aims to ensure that hosting service providers and users’ trust in the online environment are better protected against terrorist material.
KEY POINTS
The regulation sets out a number of measures to prevent and remove terrorist material on the European Union (EU) single market. These include:
a ban on hosting sites hosting terrorist material;
a requirement for service providers to remove or disable access to terrorist content, following an assessment by the competent authorities;
an obligation on hosting services providers to:
ensure that service providers are informed of the reasons for their decision to remove terrorist content;
provide information on the nature and content of the removal order, including the reason for the decision;
allow users to request clarification and feedback in relation to removal orders issued by competent authorities.
It also sets out procedures for cross-border removal orders.
The European Commission has adopted delegated acts to supplement this regulation with technical requirements for the electronic means of transmission of removal orders and for the establishment of contact points.
In addition, the regulation sets up a mechanism for the exchange of information between EU countries and the European Judicial Network (EJN).
The EJN is responsible for the protection of the personal data of individuals who have been ordered to leave the EU and who have not complied with removal orders, as well as for information about their legal representatives.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULTRY APPLY?
It has applied since 1 January 2005 and had to become law in the EU countries by 1 January 2006.
BACKGROUND
 The regulation is part of a package of measures designed to improve the functioning of the EU single market in the context of the fight against terrorism.
For more information, see:
‘Fighting terrorism online’ (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Terrorist material: any material which is considered to be a threat to public safety, public health or the safety of the general public.
* Hosting service provider: a service provider that allows users to access a web page, such as a website or an application, which is hosted or hosted by an internet service provider.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Decision 2005/856/EC
1.1.2005
-
OJ L 183 of 1.1 January 2005
RELATED ACTS
Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 856/2004 of 8 June 2004 on the establishment by the European Commission of a European Electronic Network for the Protection of Personal Data and of the Right of Access to Information, and repealing Council Regulation (EEC, EC) No 652/93 (OJ C 202 of 12.7.2004)
last update 04.11.2016



Summary 6:
Scientific, technological, economic, environmental and societal impact: Horizon Europe 2021-2027 (FSPRE)
Scientific and technological, societal and economic impact: Research and Innovation (FPSRE) 2021–2027
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) 2019/856 — Horizon Europe — the Framework Programme for Research and innovation 2021-2020
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
   
 
It sets out the framework for the EU’s investment in research and innovation (R&I).
KEY POINTS
The FSPRE is the main instrument of the Horizon Europe programme, which aims to support the European Union (EU), its Member States and the European Free Trade Association (EFTA) in the field of R&I.
It is funded by the European Investment Bank (EIB), the European Social Fund (ESF) and the Cohesion Fund.
The EIB and the CSF are the main sources of funding for Horizon Europe, while the EIF and the EFS provide the EU with additional financial support.
Horizon Europe is one of the main investment instruments of the EU, along with the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) and Horizon Europe for the period 2014–2020.
Funding
The programme is funded through the following sources:
the EIB, the EAFRD, the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), Horizon Europe and Horizon 2020 (see summary);
the Cohesion Funds, the EU Social Fund, Horizon 2020, Horizon 2021 and Horizon 2027;
the European Investment Fund (EIF), Horizon 2020 and Horizon 2021.
In addition, Horizon Europe is eligible for grants from the European Research Council (ERDC) and from the World Trade Organisation (WTO).
The following types of grants are also eligible:
grants for research and development (R & D) projects, including grants for the development and demonstration of innovative products and services, and grants for R&D projects for the implementation of R & D projects, such as the development of new technologies and the demonstration of the use of existing technologies, and for the dissemination of scientific and technological knowledge and best practices.
Procurement
The Programme is open to the participation of any person or legal entity, regardless of its place of establishment and including legal entities from non-associated third countries or international organisations, provided that the conditions laid down in this regulation have been met together with any conditions set down in the work programme or call for proposals.
Participation
The Commission may adopt conditions for participation of beneficiaries of other programmes. These conditions are set out in the programme's work programme and in the calls for proposals, as well as in the Commission's annual work programme.
Cooperation
The EU is committed to promoting cooperation between its research institutes, universities, research centres and other research organisations in order to achieve the objectives of Horizon Europe. In this respect, the Commission is assisted by the Joint Research Centre (JRC), which is responsible for coordinating the activities of the EIC and the InvestEU programmes.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
The regulation entered into force on 1 July 2019.
BACKGROUND
  (European Commission)
The Horizon Europe Framework Programme is the largest investment programme of its kind in the EU. It supports research, innovation and technological development in Europe.
For more information, see:
‘Hornizon Europe’ on the European Commission's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Innovation: any research, development or technological activity that has a direct or indirect impact on the environment, human health, the economy or the social life of an individual or a group of individuals, or on the social, economic or environmental impact of an organisation or group of persons, as defined in Regulation (EC) No 596/2014.
ACT
  барска нашка (OJ L 183, 7.7.2019, pp. 1–5)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2019–856 have been incorporated into the basic text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 14.01.2021



Summary 7:
Programme for the European Union’s participation in the International Space Station (EU-2020)
Programming for the EU's participation in international space activities
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 541/2014/EU on the EU-2020 programme for the participation of the Union in the international space programme
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out the rules and procedures for the implementation of the EU–2020 programme.
KEY POINTS
The programme is designed to:
support the development of the European Space Agency (ESA) and the European Geostationary Operational Research and Development Agency (EGNOS) in their activities in the field of space;
promote cooperation between ESA and the EU countries in the area of space research and development;
contribute to the development and operation of the Galileo and EGNOS space stations;
facilitate the transfer of knowledge and expertise between the ESA and EU countries;
provide the European Commission with the necessary information and expertise in the areas of space and space policy;
support and coordinate the activities of the Expert Teams set up under the programme;
ensure that the programme is implemented in line with the objectives of the General Programme for European Space Policy (GSP), which is the main instrument of the GSP.
The regulation lays down the rules for the organisation of the programme, including:
the structure and structure of the Programme;
the role of the Executive Director, who is appointed by the Commission and is responsible for the overall programme management;
implementing the programme in accordance with the EU country-by-country priorities;
a Security Accreditation Board, which ensures the programme complies with the requirements of the Security Council and the General Agreement on the Protection of Life and Health of the Earth (GALI);
the responsibilities of the Commission, the Agency and ESA, which are set out in the ESA-EU Framework Agreement, which is based on the 2004 Framework Agreement.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
The Regulation entered into force on 1 January 2015.
BACKGROUND
   
The GSP is one of the three pillars of the ESA–EU programme, along with the European Research and Innovation Fund (ERIFIFIF) and Horizon 2020.
For more information, see:
‘The European Union in space’ on the ESA's website.
MAIN DOCUMENT
 
  барканска гранка  глаксандара бракка, гълганна каки гакодна   дарна and гглъкабакашка (EU–2020) programme — financial regulation (OJ L 309, 19.11.2014, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EU/2014) have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
  (1) OBJECTIVE of the Council and of the Representatives of the Governments of the Member States, meeting within the Council, to adopt a common programme for European Union participation in International Space Agency activities (Council Decision 2014/488/EU)
Council Regulation (EC) No 1285/2013 on the European Regional Development Fund (see summary)
Decision 2014/494/EU of 25 November 2014 on the establishment of a European Union Agency for the contribution of the Community to International Space Exploration (ESA–EU) (see amending act(s) below)
last update 14.02.2016



Summary 8:
European Digital Innovation Hubs (EDI 2020/2027 – 2021-2027)
European digital innovation hubs (EDII 2020/2020)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) 2019/2022 establishing the European Digital Innovation Programme (EDIN 2020/21/2021)
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes a programme to support the development of European digital innovation in the context of the European Commission’s resolution on digitising the European Union (EU).
It sets out the specific objectives of the programme and the delivery mechanisms to be used to achieve them.
KEY POINTS
Objectives
The programme is designed to:
facilitate the sharing of knowledge and experience between EU countries;
promote the use of exascale and post-exascale computers in total and by various stakeholder groups (universities, SMEs, industry, etc.) in cooperation with relevant industries;
encourage research and development in the areas of artificial intelligence (AI) and high performance computing (HPC);
support the development and use of advanced skills in all domains and at all levels through mobility experiences.
The objective of the EDI programme is to support actions in the following fields:
research and development;
creativity;
innovation;
employment;
research;
education;
advanced skills.
Eligible actions
The EDI actions will be funded by the European Social Fund Plus (ESF+), the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) and Erasmus+ and the European Education and Training Fund (ETFinance.
Specific objectives
The following are eligible for funding:
1.
Research and development:
the EDIAs part of the Horizon Europe programme, the ESI programme supports the creation of a European Innovation Hub (EI Hub) in each EU Member State. The EI Hub will be financed by the EU budget and will be based in the territory of the Member State in which the EI hub is located.
2.
Academic and training:
EIHubs will be supported by the ERDF or ESF+ and will complement the activities of Horizon Europe.
3.
In addition, EIH will support the following activities:
ex-ascale computing:
supporting research and innovation in HPC;
support for the development, use and dissemination of new technologies in the area of AI;
the development of new knowledge and skills;
exchange of best practices and best practices in the field of HPC.
4.
Educational and mobility experiences:
participation of young people in the programme will be facilitated by the participation of universities, research institutes and training institutes.
5.
Participation of non-EU countries and territories (non-EU Member States):
the participation of the countries of the Western Balkans, the Faroe Islands, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway, Switzerland and Turkey will also be encouraged.
FROM WHEN DOES THE REGUMENT APPLY?
   
 
It has applied since 1 January 2019.
BACKGROUND
  (European Commission)
The European Commission has set up a multiannual financial framework for the period from 2021 to 2027.
For more information, see:
‘The European Innovation Programme 2021/202027’ on the EIN2020 website.
MAIN DOCUMENT
 			 	  	
Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 552/2019/EU of 11 December 2019 establishing the programme for a period of seven years from 1 January 2021 to 31 December 2027 and repealing Regulation (EC) No 966/2012 (OJ L 193, 30.12.2019, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EEC) 2019-2022 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
                                   	 
Council Decision (CFSP) 2018/856 of 11 March 2018 on the establishment of a programme for the European Innovation Fund (EIN2020/2023) and repealing Decision No 541/2014/EU and Commission Decision No 652/2013/EU (OCT) No 1201/2014 (O J L 183, 12.4.2018, p. 1)
Council Framework Decision (EU), Euratom 2020/1902 of 12 March 2020 establishing a programme on the European Investment Bank (EIB) (OJC L 183 of 12.5.2022, pp.)
See consolidated version.
last update 04.01.2021



Summary 9:
Funding for innovation and entrepreneurship in Europe (2020-2027) programme (FARE-2020)
Fare-2020 programme (2027-2028)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 1291/2013 establishing Horizon 2020 – the Framework Programme for Research and Innovation (2014-2020), and repealing Decision No 1982/2006/EC (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013)
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes the EU’s Horizon 2020 programme for research and innovation (2014–2027).
It sets out the objectives of the programme for the period from 1 January 2021 to 31 December 2027.
KEY POINTS
The programme aims to:
promote the growth and competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) in the European Union (EU);
facilitate research and development (R&D) activities;
support the development of innovative products and services;
improve SMEs’ access to the labour market;
encourage the sharing of knowledge and expertise between EU countries;
contribute to the creation of a knowledge-based economy.
The objectives are set out in Annex I to the regulation.
Objectives
The objective of the Horizon 2020 Programme is to support actions in the following areas:
encouraging innovation and entrepreneurialism in the EU;
fostering the creation and diversification of the EU economy;
promoting the participation of SMEs in the activities of the private sector;
facilitating the exchange of information and communication technologies (ICTs);
supporting the development and dissemination of knowledge, skills, skills and competences;
creating an environment conducive to innovation;
improving the knowledge base of EU citizens and businesses.
Specific objectives
The following actions are eligible for funding:
the following actions implementing the specific objective referred to in Article 3(2)(a) of the regulation:
research and development activities, including:
exchange of best practices and best practices;
the development of new products and technologies;
exchanges of experience and best practice in the field of R&D;
research, development and technological development;
development of products, technologies and services in the areas of health, safety, environment, social protection and the environment;
investment in research, development, innovation and SMEs;
employment and training;
innovation in the area of the environment, energy, transport and mobility;
environmental, social and consumer protection;
agriculture, forestry, fisheries and aquaculture;
health and safety;
food and feed;
science and technology;
biotechnology;
information society;
education and training.
In addition, the programme is designed to support the following activities:
facilities and facilities for the training and development of researchers, engineers, architects, technicians and other professionals;
participation of EU countries in the programme;
organisation of research projects;
training and mentoring of researchers;
visits and exchanges of scientists and technical experts;
reciprocal access to research facilities and facilities;
rehabilitation of researchers and engineers;
sharing of facilities and expertise;
cooperation between research institutes, universities, research centres and other research institutions;
initiatives to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the European Research and Development Fund (ERDF);
the sharing of information, research and training activities between universities and training institutes; and
the exchange of experience between research institutions.
Implementation and forms of EU funding
The European Commission is responsible for administering the programme. It is assisted by a steering committee composed of representatives of the Member States, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions. The Commission is assisted in this by the European Parliament and the Council and by the Committee on the Functioning of the Union, the Committee for the Internal Market and the European External Action Service.
It is funded by the general budget of the Community, the EU budget and the EU countries’ contributions to the EU.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
   
The regulation has applied since 1 January 2014. It has applied for a period of 5 years from the date of entry into force.
BACKGROUND
The Horizon 2020 Framework Programme is one of the three pillars of the Europe 2020 programme. The other two pillars are the European Pillar of Social Rights (Euratom) and the Erasmus+ programme.
For more information, see:
Horizon 2020 (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Innovation: the ability of an individual or a group of individuals or companies to create, develop and implement innovative products or services.
* Research and development: the process of discovering, developing and disseminating knowledge, technology or services, and the results of that innovation.
ACT
 
  Еганскан



Summary 10:
Traceability of firearms and essential components: European Firearms Pass (until 30 years after their destruction) (until 31 December 2023)
Tracingability of Firearms and Essential Components: EU Firearms Pass
SUMMARY OF:
Directive 2011/43/EU — tracing of firearms
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DIRECTIVE?
It aims to make it easier for law enforcement authorities in EU countries to trace the ownership, ownership and transfer of firearms, essential components and ammunition.
It codifies and repeals Directive 2006/53/EC (see summary).
KEY POINTS
Scope
The directive applies to all types of firearms:
converted weapons* (including rifles, shotguns, pistols, assault rifles, revolvers, handguns, grenade launchers and hand grenades);
firearm accessories (including ammunition, ammunition, spare parts and spare parts);
convertible military equipment (including explosives, bombs, torpedoes and landmines);
automatic rifles and shotguns;
machineguns;
explosives and grenade launchers;
live ammunition;
battery-operated rifles and carbines;
automatic grenade launchers.
EU countries may authorise the temporary handing over of firearms in accordance with procedures which they must lay down in their national law.
The holder of an EU firearms pass must:
have a valid EU country’s national identity card;
have the right to carry a weapon or firearm in their possession;
use the pass for up to 30 years;
be able to carry the weapon or firearms in their country of residence;
inform the competent national authorities of their identity and the name and address of the holder of the pass;
ensure that the pass is valid throughout the EU;
notify the competent authorities of any confiscation, confiscation or transfer of the firearms or essential components in question within 30 days of receiving the pass.
Passes are valid for 10 years from the date on which they are issued. They may be renewed for a further 10 years after the destruction of the firearm or essential component in question.
Eligibility for holders
Holders of firearms of categories A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, II, III, IV, V, VI, VII, VIII, IX, X, XI, XII, XIII, XIII and XI must have a valid national identification card issued by the EU country issuing the pass, which must contain the following information:
the holder's name and contact details;
the number of rounds of ammunition and the number of magazines in which they can be fired;
a description of the type of weapon and ammunition and of the ammunition and ammunition magazines in each of the categories.
Transfer of firearms between EU countries
Transferring a firearm between an EU country and a non-EU country is subject to the following conditions:
transfer of the transfer of a firearm from one EU country to another EU country without the transferee obtaining or having a licence or being specifically permitted to possess those firearms;
transfers of a firearms of category C or D must be subject to a licence issued by a country in which the transfer takes place.
Transfers must not be carried out without the authorisation of the competent authority of that EU country.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS DIRECTIVE APPLY?
The legislation entered into force on 1 January 2012. EU countries had to incorporate it into national law by 1 January 2013.
BACKGROUND
The EU has adopted a number of measures to combat the proliferation of illegal firearms. These include:
Regulation (EU) 2019/856 on the traceability of all firearms and their essential components (the Traceability Directive);
the Traceable Firearms Directive (the Firearms Directive); and
the Restrictive Firearms Directive.
For more information, see:
‘Tracing Firearms’ on the European Commission's website.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Council Directive 2011/42/EU
1.1.2012
-
OJ L 183 of 1.1 February 2012
RELATED ACTS
Regulating Regulation (EC) No 596/2008 of the European Parliament and of Council of 11 December 2008 on the tracing of all types and quantities of firearms (recast) (Codified version) (Official Journal L 347 of 12.12.2008).
Regulations (EC, Euratom) No 1296/2006 and (EC), No 1297/2006 of the Council and Council Directives 2006/54/EC, 2006/57/EC and 2006/58/EC of the General Assembly and of 22 December 2006 on the Traceability of All Firearms and Firearms and their Essential Components (the traceability Directive) and repealing Council Directive 96/9/EC) (OJ C 202 of 12 December 2006).
last update 04.11.2016



Summary 11:
Maritime Single Window Information System (EMSWe) for the management of the EU’s single market in maritime transport (2014-2027)
Maritime single window Information System for the Management of the European Union‘SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) 2018/1725 on the establishment of the maritime single window information system (EMSW)
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes the maritime national single window (EMSW) Information System, which collects information on all information elements requested by national authorities or port operators for administrative or operational purposes when a ship makes a port call.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to all EU countries’ national authorities and port operators (i.e. the EU countries themselves) when a passenger vessel calls at one of their ports.
It does not apply to:
ship identification information, particulars and exemptions;
presentation of goods to customs;
temporary storage declaration of goods;
customs status of goods.
EU countries must ensure that the ship identification information and particulars are recorded in the EMSWe ship database and are made available for any subsequent port calls within the EU.
The data set is made available and reused in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 596/2014 on the common ship sanitation database (see summary).
The European Commission is responsible for the operation of the data set. It is assisted by the European Maritime Safety Agency (EMSA).
EMSWe data set
The EU country in which the ship is registered must:
ensure that:
identifies the ship;
ensures that the information is entered into the database;
keeps the information for at least 5 years;
provides the information in a format that is easily accessible to the public;
publishes a report on the use of the database, including:
the number of ships registered in the EU and the number of persons on board;
the total number of passengers and cargo;
details of the number and type of cargo and cargo types;
information on the number, type and duration of the port call;
a description of the ship and the port where the ship makes its last port call, including the name of the master/ssO/CSO/ship's agent or ship's agent.
Implementing act
The implementing act lays down the rules for the implementation of the implementing act.
Amendments to the regulation
Amending act(s)
The amending act introduces:
a common ship sanitation database (common ship database);
a harmonised reporting interface module to be used by EU countries when reporting formalities for ships arriving in and/or departing from ports of the Member States and repealing Directive 2002/6/EC (OJ L 283, 29.10.2010, pp. 1-8);
the common ship registration database (CSDB);
common ship sanitation data set (common data set) to be set up by the Commission;
an EU country may request the Commission to introduce or amend the data elements in the information set.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
The legislation has applied since 15 August 2018 and had to become law in the Member countries by 15 August 2021.
BACKGROUND
The Maritime Single Window is the backbone of trade and communications within and beyond the single market.
For more information, see:
‘EMSW’ on the European Commission's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Maritime Single Windows Information System: an information system that collects and stores information on the information elements that might be requested by a national authority or port operator for administrative and operational purposes, such as:
passenger identification information (e.g. name, nationality, nationality of the person or entity providing the information);
ship registration;
ship number;
description of the vessel;
number of passengers;
cargo type;
duration of port call and cargo type.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2019/1724 of 15 July 2019 establishing the Maritime Single window Information Systems (EMSWE) and repealing Regulation (Euratom) No 952/2013 and amending Council Regulation (CFSP) No 852/2014 (O J L 347, 15.8.2019, pp 1-2)
Successive amendments to Regulation (eu) 2019 /1724 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
Regulations (EC, EFSP, EEC, EEA) No 1099/2014 and (EC), Euratom of the Council and the European Parliament on the Common Ship Sanitation Database (SSDB), the Common Maritime Information System and the common data set, and repealing Council Decision 2004/856/EC and Council Decision 2002/7/EC of 20 October 2004 on the registration of ships and the Common



Summary 12:
E-tolls and electronic vehicle tolls (EETS) — rules on cooperation between EETS providers and toll chargers (recast)
EETS and electronic ticketing systems (EETS)
SUMMARY OF:
Directive (EU) 2016/680/EU on the application of the rules of the European Union’s Electronic Traffic Electronic System (ETES)
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DIRECTIVE?
It aims to ensure that EETS (electronic ticketing system) is more transparent and efficient.
It recasts and repeals Directive 2002/58/EC (see summary).
KEY POINTS
Scope
The directive applies to all EETS users (e.g. motor vehicles, trucks, buses, coaches, ambulances and trailers) in the EU. It does not apply to parking fees.
Tolls are calculated on the basis of:
the number of vehicles registered in an EU country;
the total number of tolls applied by the EETS service provider to each vehicle; and
the average number of hours of use by each EETS user per day.
E-ticketing system
The legislation applies to the following types of EETS services:
e-toll service providers (e-ticket service providers):
toll chargers;
transit service providers;
passenger transport services;
ticketing service providers.
Cooperation
The EETS provider must:
cooperate fully with the toll charger in their enforcement efforts;
ensure that:
they inform the national authorities of all the details of the number of EETES users using their service;
provide the authorities with all the necessary information, such as: the name and address of the person or company responsible for EETS;
their contact details;
all the information necessary to calculate the applied toll on the vehicle;
inform the authorities of the reasons for the decision to apply the toll;
give the authorities all the information they need to carry out their enforcement activities;
allow the authorities to use the information provided to identify suspected offenders;
use the information as evidence in criminal proceedings;
take the necessary measures to prevent the misuse of the information;
notify the competent authorities of any infringements of the law;
assess the impact of the legislation on the safety and security of users;
report to the European Commission every 5 years on the implementation of the directive.
Safeguard procedure
The following measures are in place to protect users’ personal data:
in the event of a failure to pay road tolls, the user has the right to request from the controller access to and rectification or erasure of personal data and restriction of processing of their personal data.
In the case of a non-compliance with the directive, the holder of the specific registration certificate is entitled to:
a refund of the road toll charged;
a right to be reimbursed for the amount of the toll charged.
If a user does not comply with the above measures, the EU country in which the vehicle is registered must inform the competent authority of that country of the reason for the failure to comply.
The competent authority must also take the necessary steps to prevent, detect and prosecute infringements.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS DIRECTIVE APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 January 2017. EU countries had to incorporate it into national law by 1 January 2018.
BACKGROUND
 
  * KEY TERMS
* Electronic ticketing service (ETS): a system that allows users to pay tolls on the use of an electronic transport system.
* Toll charger: a toll service provider that charges a toll on a vehicle for the purpose of providing a service to a user.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Regulation (EC) No 596/2013
1.1.2017
-
OJ L 347 of 12.12.2013
Amending act(s)
Entry INTO FORCE
Entry in force
Transposition into force - Date of expiry (if different from the entry into force of the act).
Deadlines for transposing into force (if applicable)
Official journal
Regulations (EC, Euratom) No 496/2014 and (EC), No 498/2014
2.2.2014
3.3.2015
4.4.2016
5.6.2016 (OJ C 202 of 3.7.2014).
Last updated: 27.08.2014



Summary 13:
EU immigration liaison officers network
EU immigrants’ information exchange network
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) 2019/856 — setting up an EU immigration liaison officer network
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets up a network of EU immigration officers to facilitate and support the return operations of the EU’s migration policy.
It recasts and repeals Regulation (EC) No 377/2004 on the creation of an EU migration network.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation sets out the tasks and responsibilities of the European Commission and the European Border and Coast Guard Agency (Europol).
The Commission and Europol are responsible for:
coordinating the deployment of EU-wide networks of liaison officers;
organising and coordinating the information exchange between the Commission and EU agencies;
providing technical assistance to the Europol, Eurojust, Europol and other EU agencies in the field of migration;
assisting the European Migration Agency (EMSA) in its work;
exchanging information and best practice on migration with the Commission.
The European Commission is responsible for setting up a Steering Board, which is composed of representatives of the Commission, the European Parliament, the Council and the EU countries and is chaired by an EU country representative. The Commission is assisted by a secretariat set up by the Commission in the event of a crisis.
Role of the Steering board
The steering board:
Establishes and manages the network and its tasks;
coordinates the deployment;
identifies deployment gaps and outlines possibilities;
estabides with the EU agencies and national authorities;
is responsible for the coordination and coordination of the network;
draws up the list of deployment gaps;
prepares a list of vacancies;
ensures that the Commission does not deploy liaison officers in locations where it does not have the capacity to do so;
supports and supports the networks provided for in the regulation;
cooperates with national authorities in the areas where it is not possible for the Commission to deploy immigration officers.
Information exchange platform
The information exchange platform is based on a secure web-based information exchange system. It is managed by Europol. It allows for the exchange of information between EU agencies, EU countries’ competent authorities and the Commission on migration policy and the return of illegal immigrants.
EU countries are required to:
ensure that the information exchanged on the network is up-to-date;
share personal data processed in the course of the work of the liaison officers for the purposes of implementing the return operation of the Union in accordance with the conditions laid down in Article 49(1) and (2) of Regulation (EU).
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
   
It has applied since 18 February 2019 and had to become law in the EU Member States by 18 February 2020.
BACKGROUND
The purpose of the regulation is to ensure that the migration policy is implemented and maximise the impact of EU action on migration.
For more information, see:
EU migration policy (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Immigration liaison officer: an immigration officer who assists the EU migration policy in its implementation and maximises its impact.
* Migration policy: an EU action plan that aims to reduce the number of illegal migrants crossing the external borders and to increase the effectiveness of its return operations.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Council Regulation (Euratom) No 856/2019
18.2.2019
-
OJ L 165 of 18.2-19.2019, pp. 1-2
Amending act(s)
Entry in force
Deadlines for transpose in the member States
official Journal
Decision 2014/926/EU
17.6.2014
-  харанска гарка (OJ C 202, 17.7.2014, p. 1)
last update 11.11.2014



Summary 14:
Biometric data in identity cards and residence cards of family members who are not nationals of an EU country
Biometrics in identity card and residence card and family members of non-EU citizens
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) 2017/1954 — minimum security standards for the use of biometric data
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It lays down minimum security requirements for the identification of EU citizens and their family members with regard to their biometric identifiers (fingerprints, facial images, iris and iris).
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to all EU citizens, their families and non-nationals.
It does not apply to:
non-EU nationals who are entitled to stay in the EU on a temporary or permanent basis;
national identification cards issued on a provisional basis with a period of validity of less than 6 months;
validated residence permits issued by EU countries to non-European Union citizens.
The purpose of the regulation is to ensure that the security of the EU’s single single market and the protection of personal data.
Biometric identifiers are used to verify the identity of the holder of an identity card or the residence card of a family member who is not an EU citizen.
National IDENTITY CARDS
National identity cards must be issued by the competent national authority and must contain:
fingerprints or iris images;
a facial image;
an image of a person with a facial image.
EU countries must ensure that fingerprints are collected only by qualified and duly authorised staff of the competent authorities of the country in which the card is issued. Children under the age of 6 years are exempt from the requirement to give fingerprints, except in the case of applications submitted to the diplomatic and consular authorities.
Residence cards
Family members of a EU citizen are issued with the same security standards as national identity cards, but are subject to the same requirements as national identification cards.
Family cards issued to family members are called ‘Residence card’. They are valid for 6 months and do not include fingerprints or facial images.
FROM WHEN DOES THE REGUMENT APPLYEAR OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
   
It entered into force on 1 January 2018.
BACKGROUND
The European Commission has published a report on the implementation of this regulation and on its impact on fundamental rights and data protection principles.
For more information, see:
‘Biometric identity cards’ on the European Commission's website.
KEY TERMS
* National identity card: a card issued by an EU national to a non-member of the European Union (EU).
* Residence card: an identification document issued to a family Member of a member of the same EU country.
* Non-EU national: an individual who is a national of another EU country but is not a resident of that country and does not have the right to live or work in that country under the same conditions as a national.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Council Regulation (EC) No 1030/2002
1.1.2018
-
OJ L 286, 1.11.2018, pp. 1-8
Amending act(s)
Entry in force
Date of entry into force (if different from the date of application):
1 January 2019
Deadlines for transposing in the member states
1 February 2019
1 March 2020
1 June 2020
2 June 2021
1 July 2021
3 June 2022
4 June 2024
5 July 2024
6 July 2024*
7 July 2023
8 June 2027
8 July 2028
9 July 2029
10 July 2031
1 August 2020
9 June 2021.
RELATED ACTS
Council Directive 2004/38/EC of 26 February 2004 on the establishment of a uniform format for residence permits for third-country nationals and for the recognition of the residence of third country nationals (Official Journal L 291, 28.7.2004, pp 1-4)
See consolidated version.
last update 04.01.2019



Summary 15:
Interoperability of EU information systems for security, border and migration management
Integration of EU Information Systems for security and border and immigration management
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) 2019/817 — interoperability of the European information system (eu-LISA)
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to improve the interoperability between the EU’s information systems in order to improve border control and border management.
KEY POINTS
The regulation establishes the European Information System for Security and Border and Migration (e-lISA) and the European Search Portal (ESP).
The aim of the regulation is to:
ensure that EU countries’ border guards, customs authorities, police officers and judicial authorities have the necessary information at their disposal to prevent, detect and prevent illegal immigration;
improve the security of the internal borders of the EU;
facilitate the exchange of information between national border guards and customs authorities;
increase the speed and efficiency of border control.
It also aims to reduce the administrative burden on national authorities.
Scope
The legislation applies to the use of e-lisa, the European search portal and the multiple-identity detector (MIDDLE), as well as to the European Border and Coast Guard Agency (Europol).
It does not apply to the information exchange system (E-CBSA).
Use of the Eu-elisa and the MIDDATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
It has applied since 1 January 2019.
BACKGROUND
   
This regulation is one of a series of legislative acts adopted by the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission in 2018. The other legislative acts include:
Decision (EU, Euratom) 2018/1861 — establishing a European Border Information System (Eu-ELISA) — establishing an EU border information system and establishing a common EU information system for border and cross-border border management;
Commission Regulation (EC) No 767/2008 — setting up a common information system in the field of security for border management (e.g. EC) (see summary) (See amending acts).
In 2018, the Commission adopted a Communication on the implementation of the communication.
The Communication initiated a process towards achieving interoperability in the EU's information systems.
For more information, see:
EU information system interoperability (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Multi-Identity Detector: a system that can be used to detect the presence of a person or persons with a different identity than the person who is the subject of a search query.
* MIDIDLE: a tool that allows a border guard or customs authority to check whether a person is the same as the person they are looking for and to verify the identity of that person. It can be set up by an EU country or by an authority in another EU country to check that the same person is at the border and that the person has the same travel document or visa.
ACT
Commission Recommendation 2019/884/EU of 12 December 2019 on interoperability and the application of Regulation (EU), Euratom (OJ L 347, 14.12.2019, pp. 1-8)
RELATED ACTS
 
Regulations (EC, EFTA) No 633/JHA and (EU/2018/1240 of the Council of 15 March 2017 on combating terrorism and replacing Council Framework Decision 2002/475/EEC and amending Council Decisions 2004/512/EC, 2008/633/EC and 2008/734/EC as regards the establishment of a common European information and border control system, and repealing Council Decision 2004/767/EC.
Commission Implementing Regulation (Euratom) 2017/2226 of 11 December 2017 laying down the rules for the establishment and operation of a central repository for reporting and statistics in the European Union for the purposes of border and visa management and repealing Regulations (EC and EFTA), (EC), (EFTA, EC) No 552/2004 and (EC)(1) No 1269/2004 of the EC and repealing Regulation (CFSP) No 496/2004.
Communication from the Commission to the Council on the application by the Commission of the Communication of 16 December 2017 on the Interoperability and Accessibility of the Community Information System in the Field of Border and Cross-Border Migration (COM(2017) 696 final, 17.1.2017)
last update 04.01.2019



Summary 16:
Biomass and biofuels — renewable energy and renewable energy technologies
Biomedicine and biofuel: renewable energies and renewable technologies
SUMMARY OF:
Directive (EU) 2019/856 — renewable energies & renewable energy & biomass fuels
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DIRECTIVE?
It aims to reduce greenhouse gas emissions (GHG emissions) from the production and use of renewable energy (i.e. energy derived from biomass, biofuel and bioenergy) in the European Union (EU).
It recasts and repeals Directive 2004/36/EC (see summary).
KEY POINTS
Scope
The directive applies to renewable energy* and biomass* technologies (e.g. biofuel, bioliquids and biomass fuels). It does not apply to the production or use of fossil fuels.
It does not affect the EU’s 2020 renewable energy targets.
EU countries are free to set their own national targets for renewable energy, but they must ensure that they are not higher than those set by the EU 2020 target.
The renewable energy target is set at 20 % of the total energy consumed in the EU by 2020. It includes:
20 % renewable energy in the form of electricity, electricity generated from renewable energy sources;
10 % of energy generated from biomass;
40 % of biomass; and
20% of energy from biofuel.
In addition, the EU countries are required to:
encourage the development of a low-carbon energy economy;
support renewable energy;
promote the use of biomass and biolucates;
ensure that renewable energy can be used as a transport fuel and as a heating and cooling fuel;
increase the share of renewables in the energy mix of energy production and consumption;
take the necessary measures to reduce the carbon footprint of the EU energy system;
implement a system to monitor and monitor renewable energy installations and installations;
inform the European Commission and the European Parliament and the Council of the measures they are taking to achieve the renewable energy goal;
establish an EU-wide renewable energy strategy, which includes renewable energy as an integral part of its policy objectives;
develop and implement a renewable energy policy, including renewable energy for transport, heating, cooling and electricity generation;
introduce measures to support the development, demonstration, demonstration and demonstration of renewable technologies;
provide incentives to encourage the development and commercialisation of new renewable energy projects;
encourage the use, demonstration or demonstration of innovative technologies, such as photovoltaics, for the production of biofuel for transport and heating, as well as for the generation of heat and/or cooling.
Support for cross-border participation
The European Commission is responsible for setting up support schemes for joint projects between EU countries. These are open to any EU country wishing to participate in a joint project.
Cooperation
The Commission is also responsible for:
monitoring the application of the directive;
assessing the impact of the legislation on the energy market;
making recommendations to EU countries and the public on how to implement the directive.
Implementing the directive
The legislation sets out a number of measures, including:
the following:
rules on the participation of non-EU countries in the scheme;
the eligibility criteria for participation;
rules to be followed by EU countries;
a list of the types of projects eligible for participation in the joint projects.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS DIRECTIVE APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 January 2020 and had to become law in the Member States by 1 January 2021.
BACKGROUND
The EU has been pursuing a clean energy strategy for the period 2020-2030.
For more information, see:
‘Clean energy’ (European Commission).
* KEY TERMS
* Renewable energy: renewable energy is defined as energy that can be produced, stored, transported, stored or used in a way that minimises its environmental impact.
* Biofuels: biofuel is a fuel derived from food or feed crops.
MAIN DOCUMENT
 
  The Renewable Energy Directive (REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition into force
Official Journal
Regulation (EC) No 856/2019/EU
1.1.2020
-
OJ L 347, 1.12.2019, pp. 1-24
Amending act(s)
Entry INTO FORCE
DeadLINE for transposing into force (Expiry date)
Deadlines for transpose into force and transposition in the Official Journal
Official journal
Regulations (EC, Euratom) No 596/2014 and (EC), No 599/2014
1 (1) 2019
- (OJ C 202, 7.8.2014, pp.).
RELATED DOCUMENTS
 



Summary 17:
Radio Spectrum policy in the EU
Radio Spectrum Policy in the European Union
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 596/2013 — radio spectrum policy
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out the rules for the allocation of radio spectrum (RF) to the EU’s electronic communications markets.
It aims to ensure that the EU has a single market for electronic communications services and that the use of the radio spectrum is fair and equitable.
KEY POINTS
   
The regulation applies to all EU countries, except Denmark, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway, Switzerland and the United Kingdom (1).
It does not apply to:
the EU countries’ national regulatory authorities;
telecommunications service providers;
the European Commission;
electronic communications networks or services and associated facilities (e.g. mobile phones, fixed-line telephony, broadband internet access, etc.).
It applies from 1 January 2014.
Scope
The directive applies to the provision of electronic communications networks and services, including:
communications services, at a fixed location;
mobile telephony;
internet access;
access to the internet;
radio spectrum; and
mobile broadband access.
EU countries must ensure that:
all users have access to the same radio spectrum, irrespective of their geographical location, regardless of where they live or work;
all services are free of charge;
users have the right to switch and number portability;
services are provided by a single provider or a single service provider;
information about security and network security is provided free-of-charge;
service providers are required to provide information about security to end-users;
end-users are entitled to a high level of protection against security threats.
National regulatory authorities may impose obligations on providers or beneficiaries of access, where necessary to ensure normal operation of the network.
In addition, EU countries may impose conditions on providers and beneficiaries of the same access, such as:
a minimum age limit of 18 years;
a maximum duration of 5 years for access to a given service;
an obligation on providers to provide the same service to all users irrespective of the geographical location of the end-user;
protection of personal data;
preventing interference between users;
protecting personal data protection;
ensuring the security of the user;
promoting interoperability of the electronic communications network and services;
encouraging the free movement of persons, goods and services across the EU.
Amendments to the regulation
Amending Regulation (EU) 2019/856 introduces a new regulatory framework for radio spectrum allocation.
The new framework is based on the principles set out in Directive 2005/698/EC (see summary). It is designed to ensure:
an open and transparent regulatory framework;
consistent allocation of the spectrum;
effective coordination between national authorities and the European Network Operators’ Association (ENOA);
a level playing field for all operators;
fair and transparent competition;
harmonised conditions for providers, users and beneficiaries.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
Directive 2013/96/EU has applied since 1 January 2013 and had to become law in the Member States by 1 January 2016.
BACKGROUND
 
  * KEY TERMS
* Radio spectrum: the electromagnetic spectrum used to transmit, receive and receive radio waves.
* Mobile telephony: the communication network or services provided by an electronic communications service to a mobile phone or other electronic device, including the internet, over the air or on the ground, over a fixed or mobile telephone or other mobile telephone, or over the internet.
MAIN DOCUMENT
  Егланска граша барка (Radio Spectrum Decision) (OJ L 108, 24.4.2013, pp. 1-2)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 550/2013 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
  (1)
Regulatory Framework for Radio Spectrum Policy (2014/766/EU) (See summary)
Directives 2002/19/EC, 2002/20/EC and 2002/21/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 7 March 2002 on the harmonisation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to the allocation and supervision of the frequencies used for the transmission and reception of radio waves and on the exchange of information and communication technologies, and amending Directive 2002/22/EC on the European Electronic Communications Code (EEC) (Official Journal L 321, 14.7.2014, pp.).
See consolidated version.
Communication from the Commission to the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee, the Committee of the Regions and the Committee



Summary 18:
Reporting of heavy-duty vehicles’ CO2 emissions, fuel consumption and fuel consumption
Reporting of heavier-duty vehicle emissions, fuels consumption and energy consumption
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) 2019/856 — reporting of heavy duty vehicles‘ CO2 emission and fuel-related data’
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
   
 
It sets out the rules for the reporting and reporting of greenhouse gas (CO2) emissions, energy consumption and total fuel consumption by heavy duty vehicle manufacturers and operators in the European Union (EU).
KEY POINTS
The regulation requires EU countries and manufacturers to report to the European Commission (Eurostat) on the performance of their vehicles and their fuel consumption, as well as on the number of tonnes of CO2 and energy used.
The data are to be reported to Eurostat, which then transmits the information to the EU countries’ competent authorities.
EU countries must ensure that the information is accurate, comparable and up-to-date.
Monitoring and reporting must be carried out by manufacturers and by the Commission, which has the power to impose administrative fines for non-compliance with the regulation’s requirements.
Reporting must be based on a verification procedure, which must include on-road testing and on-the-spot checks by the competent authority of the EU country in which the vehicle is registered.
If a vehicle is found to be in breach of the reporting requirements, the Commission is able to impose an administrative fine of up to EUR 10 000 000 for each year.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULTRYING APPLY?
It entered into force on 1 January 2019.
BACKGROUND
This regulation is one of a series of measures designed to improve the transparency of EU legislation in the light of the CO2 market and to improve public participation in the decision-making process.
For more information, see:
‘Monitoring of light commercial vehicles (European Commission)’ on Eurostat's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Light commercial vehicle: a vehicle designed and built to carry more than 10 tonnes of goods and having a mass of more than 1,000 kg.
MAIN DOCUMENT
  Еб   бараканска бълганка, блаксанна гарка  гранъка and глана  цакка: heavy commercial vehicles, their trailers, systems, components and separate technical units intended for such vehicles, amending Regulations (EC) No 715/2007 and (EC, No 595/2009 and repealing Directive 2007/46/EC (OJ L 151, 14.6.2018, pp. 1-8)
* Heavy-duty Vehicle: a heavy-heavy vehicle with a gross tonnage of at least 1,500 kg and a maximum mass of over 2,500kg.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Commission Regulation (EU)* 2019/884
1.1.2019
-
OJ C 202 of 1.7.2019.
Amending act(s)
last update 04.11.2019



Summary 19:
Emergency gas supply and infrastructure in the event of a gas crisis
Emergency gas transport and emergency response
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) 2017/856 — emergency gas supply in the case of a natural gas crisis in the European Union
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
   
 
It aims to ensure that the EU’s gas infrastructure is prepared in the face of a major gas crisis.
It sets out the emergency response procedures and the procedures for the coordination of national and EU-wide measures.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to all EU countries, except Denmark, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway and Switzerland.
Emergency response procedures
Each EU country must draw up an emergency plan for its own natural gas infrastructure. It must include:
a description of the measures to be taken to ensure gas is supplied to solidarity protected customers in the requesting EU country;
a list of the main actors involved in the emergency plan;
the information to be provided to the European Commission, the European Gas Coordination Group (EGCG) and the European Energy Community Contracting Parties (EECCPs).
The emergency plan must be drawn up by the competent authorities of each EU country and must be approved by the Commission.
The Commission must consult the European Parliament and the Council before taking any investment decision.
EU countries must ensure that:
the emergency plan is drawn up and approved by all the relevant national authorities;
information is communicated to the public, the media and the public is kept informed of the emergency situation;
all the necessary measures are in place of safety and security;
gas supplies are guaranteed to solidarity-protected customers are supplied to the requested EU country in accordance with their emergency plan.
In exceptional circumstances, the competent authority may take action deviating from its emergency plan if:
it considers that the emergency is not being prepared correctly;
there is a risk of serious damage to the infrastructure of the requesting country; or
it is not compatible with the national emergency plan or with other EU emergency plans.
FROM WHEN DOES THE REGUMENT APPLYEAR OF ENTRY INTO FORCE?
It entered into force on 1 November 2017.
BACKGROUND
 The regulation is one of a series of measures designed to protect the EU in case of natural gas shortages.
For more information, see:
‘Emergency gas crisis preparedness’ on the ENTSOG website.
* KEY TERMS
* Emergency gas: natural gas is used to meet the needs of industrial, electricity generation, district heating, residential and services, as well as for transport. It is also used to provide heating, cooling and other essential services in the EU.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of entry into force
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Council Regulation (EC) No 715/2009
1.11.2009
-
OJ L 211 of 14.8.2009, pp. 1-8
Amending act(s)
Entry in force
Date of application:
1 November 2017
- (1.12.2017)
Amendments
1 January 2018
1 February 2018
- [Official Journal L 157 of 1.2.2018].
RELATED ACTS
Regulating Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 596/2014 on the European Neighbourhood Gas System (ENTSOG) (Official Journal C 202 of 29.7.2014).
Last updated: 27.08.2014



Summary 20:
Energy efficiency of energy-related products and energy-saving appliances — EU rules (Regulation (EU) 2019/1369)
Energy efficiency and energy saving appliances — European rules (Recast)
SUMMARY OF:
Implementing Regulation (EC) No 1369/2017 on energy efficiency
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to ensure that energy-efficient products and appliances are sold throughout the European Union (EU).
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to:
energy-related appliances, such as boilers, supplementary heaters, temperature controls and solar devices;
suppliers of these products;
consumers and dealers;
the energy efficiency of the products themselves.
It lays down the rules on penalties and enforcement mechanisms applicable to infringements of this regulation and the delegated acts.
Scope
It applies to the sale, placing on the market or putting into service of:
a solid fuel boiler;
a heater;
an auxiliary heaters;
temperature controls;
solar panels;
alternative heating and cooling systems;
battery chargers; and
other energy efficient products.
Suppliers and dealers must ensure that:
the product is clearly displayed on the packaging and on the product information sheet;
inform consumers and dealers of the energy efficiency class and class of the product;
ensure that the label is clearly visible and clearly distinguishable from other product information on the label;
provide consumers with information on how the product complies with the regulation’s conformity assessment procedures;
make sure that the product meets the relevant EU legislation.
The European Commission may adopt delegated acts to amend the regulation if it considers that a product does not comply with the requirements of the regulation or that it does not conform to the regulation.
EU countries may adopt national measures to protect consumers, suppliers and dealers from non-compliance with this regulation. These measures may include:
temporary or permanent bans on the sale of a product if it is found to be in breach of the legislation;
restrictions on the use of certain energy efficiency classes;
ban on the placing on sale of products if the product is found not to meet the requirements;
introduction of a new class of energy efficient product to replace a class of product that is no longer being used;
implementing measures to prevent the placing in service of a non-energy-efficient product which is not complying with the regulations;
exemptions from the regulation for certain products such as:
boilers;
separate heaters (e.g. space heaters);
alternate heating and space-saving units;
cogenerators;
coffinage appliances;
gas heaters and heaters.
Exemptions are granted to certain products, including:
batteries;
fuel pumps;
access to boilers and separate heaters for heating, cooling and space heating;
extension of the range of products covered by the regulation;
energy efficient products for the production, storage and distribution of energy;
compulsory installation of heat and cooling equipment;
equipment to be installed in a residential building or in a commercial building;
installation of a solid fuel heater or supplementary heater.
Implementation
The Commission is to adopt a delegated act setting out the rules for the implementation of the delegated act.
FROM WHEN DOES THE REGUMENT APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 January 2019.
BACKGROUND
 
  The regulation is one of a series of measures designed to improve energy efficiency in the EU. It is part of the EU's energy efficiency package. The other measures are:
Regulation No 1025/2012 (see summary), which sets out rules on energy labelling and energy efficiency for energy products, energy efficiency standards, and the European Energy Agency (EEA).
For more information, see:
‘Energy efficiency’ on the European Commission's website.
KEY TERMS
* Energy-related product: a product which uses energy to provide a service or to provide an energy service.
* Solid fuel boiler: a device which is used to provide heat and/or cooling to a residential or commercial building or to transport a person or household.
MAIN DOCUMENT
 			
Commission Implementing Regulation of 20 December 2017 laying down implementing measures relating to energy efficiency and implementing delegated acts relating to the Energy Efficiency Regulation (EU, Euratom) (OJ L 183, 1.1.2019, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EEC) 2017/1370 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
  (1)   The European Commission adopts Regulation (CFSP) No 1296/2014 laying down the technical specifications for the energy-efficiency assessment procedure



Summary 21:
Protecting the rights and freedoms of natural persons in the processing of their personal data (Regulation (EU) 2018/1369)
Protecting natural persons’ right to the processing and storage of their data (Recast)
SUMMARY OF:
Delegated Regulation on the protection of the right and fundamental freedoms of the natural persons of the European Union (European Union)
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to ensure a consistent and high level of protection of personal data and to remove the obstacles to flows of data within the EU.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to all EU countries. It does not apply to:
the processing of data by EU countries’ law enforcement authorities;
processing of data in the context of criminal investigations; or
the activities of law enforcement agencies.
Rights and freedoms
Individuals have the right to object and to be involved in the decision-making process when processing their data.
Right to object
The right of individuals to object to processing is guaranteed in the following cases:
when the processing is carried out in a way that is contrary to their fundamental rights;
in a way which is likely to result in them being harmed;
when processing is not in accordance with the law of the EU country in which the processing takes place;
where the processing does not respect the fundamental rights of the person concerned;
at the request of a third party.
In addition, the right of persons to objecting to processing may be waived in the case of:
in cases where there is a risk to their rights or freedoms;
to be informed of the reason for the processing;
before a decision is made.
before the processing at issue is made, the person has the opportunity to express their opinion and to have their views taken into account.
EU countries must ensure that:
data protection impact assessments are carried out by the competent national authority;
the data protection impact assessment must be carried out at least once a year;
personal data protection information is made available to the public and to the European Data Protection Supervisor (EDSP);
the consent of the parties concerned is obtained before the processing begins.
The consent of third parties is granted if:
it is necessary in order to fulfil the obligations of the contract or the intention to enter into a contract;
there is no reason to believe that the processing will harm the rights of individuals;
it would be contrary to the interests of the public or to the legitimate interests of persons having a legitimate interest.
If the consent of an EU country is not obtained, the competent authority must take the necessary measures to prevent the processing from taking place.
Consultation procedure
The competent authority is assisted by a secretariat provided by the EDP. It is responsible for:
monitoring the application of the regulation;
preparing a code of conduct for processing activities in several EU countries;
carrying out a risk assessment;
assessing the impact of the processing on the rights, freedoms and security of the persons concerned.
It is also responsible for taking the necessary steps to ensure that data protection measures are in place to prevent, detect, investigate and prosecute infringements of this regulation.
Implementing Regulation (EC) No 596/2014
The implementing regulation sets out the rules for implementing the implementing regulation and its subsequent amendments.
FROM WHEN DOES THE DELEGATION APPLY?
Regulation(EU) 2017/1269 has applied since 1 January 2018.
BACKGROUND
   
 
For more information, see:
‘Protecting personal data’ on the European Commission’s website.
MAIN DOCUMENT
  б  ъранска барка (Commission) Delegated regulation on the Protection of the Rights and Fundamental Freedoms of the Natural Persons (European Commission)
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Regulations (EU, Euratom)
Decision 2014/856/EU
1.1.2018
-
OJ L 347 of 1.12.2014
Amending act(s)
Entry INTO FORCE
Entry in force
Transposition: Date of expiry
Final date
Official journal
Regision (EU), Euratom
1 January 2019
1 February 2019
- (OJ C 202, 1.7.2019, pp. 1-2)
RELATED DOCUMENTS
Communication from the Commission to the Council and the European Parliament, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions on the implementation of Decision 2014/884/EU/EU of the Commission on the application by the Commission of Regulation (EU] 2017/127/EC of the Regulation (Euratom) No 1369/2014 on the Regulation on protecting



Summary 22:
The harmonised index of consumer prices (HICP) and the harmonised methodology for calculating the weightings of HICP weightings
The Harmonised Index of Consumer Prices (HicP)
SUMMARY OF:
Implementing Regulation (EU) 2015/849 — the harmonisation of the harmonized index of the consumer price index and the method for calculating its weightings and the methodology for its calculation
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out the methodology to be used by the European Commission and the European Central Bank (ECB) to calculate harmonised indices for the calculation of the Harmonised Consumer Price Index.
KEY POINTS
The index is based on a series of data collected by Eurostat (Eurostat’s statistical arm) on the prices of goods and services in the EU countries. It is the main tool used to assess the level of price stability in the European Union (EU).
The Commission and ECB use the index to monitor price stability and to determine the weighting of the various indicators used by EU countries to calculate the index.
The methodology is set out in Regulation (EC) No 2494/95 on the quality of the indices.
It does not apply to:
fees and fees charged by banks and post offices;
charges by businesses and other financial services;
services provided by public undertakings;
other financial services, such as insurance and investment;
non-food and non-food services.
FROM WHEN DOES THE IMPLEGISLATION APPLACE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
   
It has applied since 1 January 2015.
BACKGROUND
The European Commission is responsible for implementing the regulation.
For more information, see:
‘The Harmonized Consumer Price Indices’ on Eurostat's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Consumer price index (CPI): a measure of the annual change in the price level of goods, services and capital relative to the level at which they were purchased in the previous year.
ACT
Commission Implementing Regulation(EU) No 1549/2015 of 12 December 2015 laying down detailed rules for the implementation of Council Regulation (EECBudgetary framework for the Harmonized Index of the Consumer Price and the Method for its Calculated Weightings
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 1151/2015
1.1.2015
-
OJ L 165 of 1.1 January 2015
Amending act(s)
Dateof entry into force - not published in the Official Journal
Decision 2014/856/EU
1 January 2014
-   The Commission adopts Decision 2014/884/EU amending Regulation (EA) No 1114/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards the implementation by Member States of Commission Implementing Regulations (EC, EFTA) No 1296/2013 and (EU), No 1299/2013 of the Commission and amending Council Regulation(EEC), and repealing Commission Regulation No 2454/97 as regards minimum standards for the quality and quantity of data to be collected by the Commission, and repealing Council Regulation No 1297/93 (Euratom).
last update 14.01.2016



Summary 23:
Dumping and injury in the internal market: EU anti-dumping and countervailing measures against non-EU countries (Codified Regulation (EU) 2019/856)
Dumping & injury in internal market (Codification Regulation (UPDATED)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 856/2009 on the application for an investigation into the alleged dumping and injury of certain goods and services by certain EU countries
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It lays down the rules for the application of the EU’s Anti-Dumping Regulation (ADR) to the EU countries’ national competition authorities.
It aims to prevent and combat the illegal dumping of goods and the unfair competition of goods between EU countries.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to imports and exports of goods from:
the EU countries;
the exporting country; and
the importing country.
Importers and importers must:
provide the Commission with all the relevant information, including:
a copy of the relevant export and import permits and authorisations;
a statement from the exporter or importer that the dumping margin has been reduced or eliminated;
an application to reduce or eliminate the margin;
information from the importer on the reasons for rejecting the application.
The Commission may accept voluntary undertaking offers submitted by any exporter to revise its prices or to cease exports at dumped prices, if it is satisfied that the injurious effect of the dumping is thereby eliminated.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCELEGAL PROCEDURE
The EU countries must inform the Commission of the date of entry into force of the investigation and the date on which they intend to initiate the investigation.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMISSION APPLYEAR OF THE CONVENTION?
   
 
It entered into force on 1 July 2009.
BACKGROUND
The ADR was amended by Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 596/2008 on the protection of intellectual property rights.
For more information, see:
‘Dumping’ and ‘injunctions’ on the European Commission's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Importers:
exporters;
importers of goods;
consumers;
producers of goods.
MAIN DOCUMENT
  барканска ганка (codified) (OJ C 202, 1.7.2009, pp. 1-2)
Successive amendments to Regulation (Euratom) 2016/852 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
  (1)
Regulations (EC and Euratom).
See consolidated version.
last update 04.01.2021



Summary 24:
Countervailing duties against imports of certain agricultural products
Countervailed duties against imported products
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 596/2004 — countervailing measures against imports
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to protect the EU’s agricultural sector against the unfair competition of imports of agricultural products from non-EU countries.
KEY POINTS
The regulation lays down rules on the application of the principle of non-discrimination between EU countries in the field of trade in agricultural products.
It does not apply to:
subsidies for the production, import or export of products which are subject to an export duty;
the granting of a subsidy for the export of a product which is subject to a duty, provided that the export performance is not dependent on export performance;
exemption or drawback of import charges in excess of those levied on imported inputs that are consumed in the production of the exported product (making normal allowance for waste);
the exemption or reduction of the import charges on imports of inputs which are used in the export operations of the exporting company.
In addition, the regulation sets out the conditions under which the Commission may impose a provisional anti-subsidy or a refund of a duty.
Implementing measures
The Commission may:
impose a provisional or refund of an import duty if:
the imports are causing injury to the domestic industry;
there is evidence that the subsidisation is causing injury;
it is contrary to the interests of the EU as a whole;
in the case of imports, the subsidised imports are likely to cause injury; or
the subsidy is not compatible with the EU's interest.
If an EU country considers that the import of a subsidised product is causing an injury, it may decide to impose a duty on the imports.
The decision must be made within 5 working days from receipt of the request for a decision.
Where the Commission considers that an import is causing a harm to the EU, it must:
decide whether a provisional countervailed duty is to be imposed;
make a definitive decision on whether a refund is required;
consider whether a review or refund should be carried out;
conclude that the duty is not justified by the facts of the case.
A decision may also be taken on the basis of the following grounds:
evidence that the imports of the like product are causing damage to the internal market;
evidence of the existence of a legitimate national market for the imported product;
proportionate and proportionate compensation for the damage caused by the import;
implementation of the decision; and
the reasons for rejection.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
It entered into force on 1 January 2005.
BACKGROUND
   
For more information, see:
‘Anti-subsidisation’ on the European Commission's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Countervailing duty: a duty which is levied against imports which are contrary to EU law and which is intended to prevent, restrict or distort competition in the market.
MAIN DOCUMENT
 
Council Regulation (EC), Euratom, Euratom of 12 December 2004 on the establishment, application and application of certain provisions of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (Codified version) (OJ L 183, 1.1.2005, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EEC) 2017/849 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
  (1) The European Commission adopted Regulation (EU) No 1299/2004 of 11 December 2004 laying down the conditions for the application and operation of the system of common provisions relating to the establishment of a common system of provisions applicable to the adjustment of import duties on agricultural products and on the limitation of the imposition of import duty on agricultural imports (codified version).
See consolidated version.
last update 14.01.2019



Summary 25:
Eligibility for EU financial support for climate change recovery and resilience plans (Recovery and resilience plan)
Eligible for EU funding for climate and climate change adaptation
SUMMARY OF:
Implementing Regulation (EU) 2019/849 — eligibility for financial support to countries facing climate change
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out the eligibility criteria for the European Union’s financial support (EU financial support) for climate action and climate resilience plans.
It also sets out how the European Commission assesses the eligibility of EU countries to receive the financial support.
KEY POINTS
The regulation sets out eligibility criteria and how the EU finances the recovery and resiliency plans of the EU countries.
The EU financial aid is to be provided to EU countries in the form of grants, loans and grants for the following measures:
recovery and resilience measures;
investment in climate change resilience;
reforms and investment in climate action;
climate action and adaptation.
EU funding
EU countries are eligible for financial aid if:
the measures are:
fostered in a climate-resilient way;
foster the sustainable development of the economy;
contribute to reducing poverty and inequality;
reduce disparities between EU countries;
promote sustainable development;
improve the quality of life of the most vulnerable groups;
increase the resilience of coastal regions;
ensure that the most deprived areas of the country are better protected;
have a long-term economic and social stability;
protect the marine environment;
provide the most of the environment; and
reinform the public of the benefits of climate action.
Recohesion
EU financial aid must be available to all EU countries, irrespective of their size.
Elimination of the eligibility criterion
EU funds are not available to countries that have not adopted a recovery and resilient plan.
FROM WHEN DOES THE REGUMENT APPLY?
   
 
It has applied since 1 February 2019.
BACKGROUND
  (European Commission)
  The EU’S Climate Action Fund (CIF) is the main instrument for providing financial support in the event of climate change. It is designed to support the EU‘s efforts to adapt to climate change and to adapt its policies to the changing climate.
For more information, see:
Climate action and resilience (European commission).
KEY TERMS
  * Climate action: the EU's action to adapt and adapt to the impact of climate and energy change.
* Climate resilience: the ability of an EU country to adapt itself to the effects of climate changes and to cope with the consequences of climate impacts.
ACT
 			
                   	
Commission Implementing Regulation(EU) 2018/848 of 11 December 2018 on the eligibility for funding for the recovery of and resilience of countries facing climatic change and adapting their policies to climate and environmental change (OJ L 328, 21.12.2018, pp. 1-8)
RELATED ACTS
                                   
 Â  Â
  барскана гарка нанка (European Semester) 2018-2020)
Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2019-2020 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 March 2019 on the European Semester (O J L 347, 20.4.2019, pp 1-7)
last update 14.11.2019



Summary 26:
Technical support instrument for EU countries’ structural reforms
Technical support system
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) 2017/825 establishing a technical support instrument
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes a support system to support EU countries in their efforts to implement structural reforms.
KEY POINTS
The aim of the support system is to:
increase the effectiveness and efficiency of structural reforms;
contribute to the improvement of the quality of economic and social life in the EU;
support the implementation of the EU’s common employment policy;
improve the competitiveness of the European Union (EU), in particular in the context of the COVID-19 crisis;
promote the participation of women in the labour market.
The support system consists of a number of elements:
the European Commission, the European Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions;
the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, which is responsible for coordinating and complementarity with the European Economic and Social Committee (EASCE) and the European Free Trade Association (EFTA) countries;
a number of bodies and entities legally established in EU countries, such as the European Statistical System for the Evaluation and Evaluation of Structural and Investment Funds (ESSEF), the European Research Council (ERIC), the Committee on the Competitiveness of Europe (CERCE), and the Commission.
Coordination
The European Commission and the EASCE are responsible for:
coordinating and complementing the European cooperation and support system;
providing technical support to EU countries and EAFTERMARY
The EASSEEC and the Social Committee are the main sources of information, communication and publicity for the instrument, including:
information, communication, public relations and publicity;
publication of the instrument;
exchanges of information between the Commission and EU countries; and
the communication activities carried out by the Commission, in particular through its communication activities.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
The regulation has applied since 1 January 2018.
BACKGROUND
The EU is in the throes of a transition to a post-crisis economy.
For more information, see:
‘Transition support instrument’ on the European Commission's website.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Council Regulation (EC) No 596/2017
1.1.2018
-
OJ L 347 of 1.1 January 2018
Amending act(s)
Entry INTO FORCE
Date of expiry
   
Final application
Regulations (EC, Euratom) No 1099/2014 and (EC), Euratom No 1096/2014
1 January 2016
- (EC).
RELATED ACTS
Commission Implementing Regulation (Euratom) 2018/856 of 11 December 2018 laying down detailed rules for the application of the Regulation (EU, EEC) 2017 /825 of the Council and amending Council Regulation (CFSP) No 1466/97 of 7 July 1997 on the strengthening of the surveillance of budgetary positions and the surveillance and coordination of economic policies (OJ C 202, 12.12.2018, pp. 1-8)
Commission Delegated Regulation (Europa) 2019/2177 of 12 December 2019 laying down specific rules for implementing Regulation (C) No 896/2013 of the EC on the evaluation and evaluation of structural and investment funds and repealing Council Decision No 1467/97/EC (EC);
Commission Decision (EU/EU) 2019 /2177 laying down the specific rules concerning the application and application of Council Decision 2014/876/EC as regards the assessment and assessment and implementation of structural investments in the field of research and development (SEDUC) (EC)(EU) (EEC) (EU).
last update 14.01.2020



Summary 27:
Information and enforcement of passengers’ rights on the rail network (recast)
Information and enforceability of passengers' right on the railway network
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) 2015/849 — information and enforcement measures for passengers on the European Union’s rail network
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to ensure that passengers have the right to travel without discrimination on the basis of nationality, race, religion, gender, age, disability, sexual orientation or any other grounds.
It recasts and repeals Regulation (EC) No 1371/2007.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to international and domestic rail journeys and services throughout the EU provided by one or more railway undertakings licensed in accordance with Directive 2012/34/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council (see summary).
It does not apply to international or domestic passenger transport services provided by companies operating in non-EU countries.
Passengers are entitled to:
information to passengers during the journey;
information on the carriage of passengers;
receiving a valid ticket;
the right of redress in the event of loss or damage to their luggage;
protection of personal data;
access to traffic and travel information.
Information to passengers
Railway undertakings and, where possible, ticket vendors and tour operators must provide the passenger with at least the following information during their journey:
the general conditions of carriage, including:
a description of the carriage and destination;
a map of the route;
an indication of the departure and destination of the train and the time of arrival in the country of origin and departure;
details of the number of stops and the departure of the passenger;
travel information on the number and duration of the journey and the means of transport.
The information must be provided in a language easily understood by the passenger.
Rights of passengers
The passenger has a number of rights, including the following.
Right of action
The right of action includes:
recovery of lost or damaged baggage;
right to be reimbursed for damage caused to the luggage or vehicle during the carriage;
refusal to use the vehicle or the carriage.
right of action arising from damage to personal data.
A passenger may request a report on the condition of the baggage or vehicle and the cause and amount of damage caused. The report must be prepared by an expert appointed either by the parties to the contract of carriage or by a court or tribunal. If the person entitled not accept the findings in the report, he may request that the luggage be handed back at the place of consignment on surrender of the luggage registration voucher and, if the General Conditions of Carriage so require, on production of the ticket.
In addition, the passenger has the right:
to be informed of the space available for bicycles;
to have their luggage checked and reimbursed if the luggage is damaged or destroyed; and
to receive a refund if the baggage is destroyed or destroyed.
Amendments to the regulation
Amending the regulation introduces a new right of recourse to be conferred on the passenger in the case of damage or destruction of their luggage. This right is based on the principle of ‘mutatis mutandis’. It allows the passenger to seek redress in a court of law if:
their luggage is destroyed, destroyed or damaged; or
their personal data is lost or destroyed, or they are unable to access it;
they are refused entry to the country in which the carriage is taking place.
This right is conferred on passengers who are not nationals of an EU country. It is also conferred on nationals of the EU country where the carriage takes place, but not on nationals who are nationals of that country.
Annexes to the amended regulation provide additional information to passengers about their rights in case of loss, destruction or damage. These include:
an explanation of the nature and nature of the damage or damage caused by the loss or destruction;
measures to be taken by the person concerned to prevent or minimise the damage to the property of a person who is entitled to compensation;
any right to be compensated for damage or loss to the personal data of the person who has been injured or destroyed by the carriage or carriage of a vehicle;
exclusions to the right of access to the information to be provided by the railway company and the information provided by ticket vendors.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
The original regulation had to become law in the EU countries by 1 January 2016.
BACKGROUND
The European Commission has adopted a series of measures to improve the functioning of the rail system in the light of the COVID-19 pandemic.
For more information, see:
Passenger rights and access to rail transport (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Passenger: any person who wishes to travel by rail.
* Carriage: the transport of



Summary 28:
Implementing Partnership Instrument (IPI III) 2021-2027: planning and delivering external assistance for the period between 2021 and 2027
Implementating Partnership Instrument III: Planning and delivering international aid for the duration between 2021-27
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) 2021/947 — planning and implementing Partnership Instrument II
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out the general principles and procedures for the implementation of the Partnership Instrument for International Aid (IPA III), the EU’s long-term partnership instrument for international aid.
It aims to ensure that the partnership is implemented in line with the EU's common foreign and security policy (CFSP) and the common security and defence policy (CSDP).
KEY POINTS
The IPA III is the third phase of the partnership instrument, which is designed to support the European Union's (EU's) efforts to achieve sustainable development in the field of external action (i.e. sustainable development).
The Partnership Instrument covers the period from 2021 to 2027. It aims to:
increase the effectiveness of the EU in its external action;
contribute to the sustainable development of EU countries;
improve the quality of life of EU citizens;
promote sustainable development;
support the sustainable growth and development of the most deprived regions of the world;
strengthen cooperation between the EU and non-EU countries.
The partnership instrument is based on a number of principles, including:
promoting sustainable development,
supporting the development of sustainable development and the sustainable use of natural resources;
encouraging sustainable development.
Initiating sustainable development within the EU;
fostering cooperation between EU countries in the fields of agriculture, forestry, fisheries, water, energy, transport, health and rural development, and the environment;
protecting the integrity of the internal market;
ensuring the protection of the Union's financial interests;
providing a high level of protection to the European Investment Bank (EIB) and other EU financial institutions.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDITION APPLY?
The regulation has applied since 1 January 2021 and had to become law in the EU countries by 1 January 2022.
BACKGROUND
  
For more information, see:
International aid (European Commission).
* KEY TERMS
* Partnership Instrument: a partnership instrument designed to improve the quality and efficiency of international aid provided by the EU.
* Sustainable development: an instrument that aims to promote sustainable development by improving the quality, efficiency and effectiveness of EU policies and programmes.
ACT
Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 883/2013 of 11 September 2013 concerning investigations conducted by the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) and repealing Regulation (EC) No 1073/1999 of the European Parliament and of the Council and Council Regulation (Euratom) no 1074/1999 (OJ L 248, 18.9.2013).
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Council Resolution of 21 December 2013 concerning the conclusion of Partnership Instrument I (IP I) 2021 - 2021
-
OJ C 202 of 28.12.2013
RELATED ACTS
 
Council Decision 2014/856/EU of 25 November 2014 on the conclusion, on behalf of the Community, of the Framework Programme for Research and Innovation (FPI) 2021 and repealing Regulations (EC), (EU), (EEC) and (EU).
  This Decision marks the end of the first phase of Horizon Europe – the framework programme for research and innovation, laying down its rules for participation and dissemination, and repealing regulations (EC, EEC, EFTA) No 1290/2013, (EU); and (EUR) No 696/2014.
last update 04.01.2020



Summary 29:
External Action Guarantee for the benefit of developing countries and the stabilisation of the Western Balkans (EAFRD)
External action guarantee for the support of developing and stabilising the Western Balkan countries and their partners (EFSD+)
SUMMARY OF:
Implementing Decision (EU) 2019/852 — the implementation of the Instrument on the European Union External Action Grant and the European Investment Bank (EIB)
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DIRECTIVE?
   
 
It aims to provide the EU with a financial instrument to support the development of countries and partners in the western Balkans, in line with the EU’s common foreign and security policy (CFSP) and the common security and defence policy (CSDP).
KEY POINTS
The decision adopts the instrument on behalf of the EU.
The objective of the instrument is to:
promote the sustainable development of the region and the stability of the West Balkans;
support the efforts of the countries in the region to develop their economic, social, cultural, religious, environmental, social and economic development;
contribute to stabilising and strengthening the region, in particular through:
supporting regional cooperation;
promoting regional integration;
strengthening cooperation between the EU and its partners;
providing financial support to the region in the form of grants, loans, loans and grants;
facilitating the participation of non-EU countries in regional cooperation.
Eligible countries and entities
The EAFRD is open to all EU countries, including:
participating in the EU countries’ regional cooperation programmes;
all EU countries with a population of at least 1 million;
non-EU candidate countries that are eligible for the EIB external action guarantee;
countries that are not participating in the European Regional Development Fund (EDF);
non–EU countries that do not participate in the EDF, but which are eligible under the IPA III Regulation;
the EU countries that have not participated in the IPA II Regulation and which are not members of the EFSD+ strategic board (see summary);
the EIB, which is funded by the EU budget and is managed by the European Commission;
any EU country that participates in the Black Sea Synergy regional cooperation, including Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kosovo, Montenegro, the Republic of Moldova, Ukraine and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, as well as the countries of the North-East Europe (now part of the European Free Trade Association).
The European Commission is responsible for implementing the instrument.
FROM WHEN DOES THE IMPLEMENTING DECISION APPLY?
It has applied since 1 January 2019.
BACKGROUND
The EU has adopted a number of instruments to support development in the west Balkans over the past few years.
For more information, see:
‘The European Union’ website.
KEY TERMS
* External action guarantee: the European investment guarantee is an instrument to provide financial support for the development and stability of a region or a group of countries.
* Strategic board: an independent, impartial and inclusive high-quality function of the Commission, set up under Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 480/2009.
ACT
Council Implementing Decision 2019/884/EU of 11 December 2019 on the implementation, on behalf the Union, of the Framework Decision on the Implementation of the International Instrument for the Protection of Western Balkans and its Member States (OJ L 183, 14.12.2019, pp. 1-2)
RELATED ACTS
 			
  The European Union has adopted:
Regulation (EC) No 541/2014/2014 on the financing of the common foreign policy of the Union and repealing Regulation (EEC) no 1216/2013 (O J L 283, 28.11.2014, p. 1)
Council Decision 2014/856/EC of 25 November 2014 on the establishment of the Common Foreign and Security Policy (CFP) and repealing Decision 2004/966/EEC and Council Regulation (C/967/Euratom) no 480/2008 (OJC L 193, 30.11-30.2014)
last update 04.01.2020



Summary 30:
Reporting of serious breaches of EU law to the competent authorities and the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF): protection of whistle-blowers (Directive (EU) 2016/943)
Reporting of major breaches of Union law to OLAF: protection of whistleblowers
SUMMARY OF:
Directive 2014/60/EU on the protection of persons who report serious infringements of EU Union law
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DIRECTIVE?
It aims to ensure that persons who have been the subject of a serious breach of EU or national law are protected by the protection provided by the EU’s anti-fraud legislation.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The directive applies to all EU citizens, whether or not they work in the private or public sectors.
It does not apply to:
persons who are not covered by Article 45(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) (see summary);
employers and legal entities that do not provide for internal reporting channels (e.g. legal entities in the public or private sectors);
legal entities that are not involved in the exercise of their legal profession.
Reporting channels
EU countries must ensure that the following channels are open to reporting:
to the European Commission, the European Court of Auditors, the Court of Justice of the EU or the European Economic and Social Committee (ECESC);
to EU countries’ competent authorities;
to civil society organisations, such as the European Network of Chambers of Justice (ENJAC);
the media, elected officials, civil society or trade unions.
to national authorities or judicial authorities.
The reporting channels must be transparent, easily understandable and reliable in order to promote and not deter reporting, and must be open to all interested parties, including:
the public through online platforms or social media, or to the media, the media or elected officials;
the European Parliament, the Council or the Commission;
national authorities, EU countries or EU-level bodies;
public bodies, such the European Maritime Safety Agency (EMSA), the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) or the national authorities of an EU country;
non-governmental organisations (NGOs).
Reporting also extends to categories of natural persons, who, whilst not being ‘workers’ within the meaning of Article 45 (1) TFEU, can play a key role in exposing breaches of European Union law and may find themselves in a position of economic vulnerability in the context of their work-related activities.
Protection against retaliation
Reporting persons must be protected against retaliation:
they must be informed of the measures to be taken in the event of any adverse reaction to their disclosure;
they are entitled to the right of appeal against any adverse action taken against them, including the right to legal aid;
any person who has been informed of a decision to take action against them is entitled to have their case heard by an independent arbitrator.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS DIRECTIVE APPLY?
 
    дантанка баканска  българка (OJ C 202, 29.6.2014, pp. 1-2)
  Еблаксанданна гакка, Бакца закранъкабарна,  Бъглана  хакта каклкачка and Ббракнайна (Codified version).
BACKGROUND
The European Commission has adopted a number of measures to protect whistleblowers in the light of the COVID-19 pandemic.
For more information, see:
‘Whistleblowers’ (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Whistleblower: a person who informs the competent authority of an alleged or suspected breach of Union or EU law.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Council Recommendation (EU, Euratom) No 883/2013 of 29 March 2013 on the Protection of Persons who Report Breaches of Union Law to the Commission and the ECESC.
Last updated: 27.06.2014



Summary 31:
European integrated border management (EUROSUR) — common rules and procedures for the EU’s external border management system (2018/1725)
European Integrated Border Management (EurosUR)
SUMMARY OF:
Implementing Decision (EU) 2018/1825 on the European Union Agency for Border and Coast Guard Cooperation
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DECISION?
It sets out common EU rules for the implementation and management of the common EU border management strategy.
It aims to improve EU countries’ cooperation and coordination at the external borders with non-EU countries.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The decision applies to all EU countries. It does not apply to the Schengen area (non-euro area countries).
EU countries are responsible for their own internal border management.
The European Commission is responsible for assessing the needs of the EU countries and for coordinating with the other EU countries in order to implement the strategy. The Commission is assisted by the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, Federica Mogherini, and the Commission.
EU Member States have the right to adopt their own national border management strategies, but the Commission must ensure that they are coordinated with the Commission and that the Commission adopts a common strategy for each of them.
Strategy
The strategy is designed to:
ensure that the EU is able to manage its external borders effectively and efficiently;
contribute to the prevention, control and return of illegal migrants;
reduce the risk of illegal immigration; and
improve cooperation between the EU and non-euro-area countries;
promote cooperation between EU countries on their external borders.
Strengthen cooperation between national border guards and border management authorities.
In order to achieve these objectives, the strategy includes:
a common approach to border management;
the creation of a common information exchange system and a common return plan for illegal migrants and asylum seekers;
a joint border control mechanism;
an operational plan for collecting return operations without delay;
coordination between the national border control authorities of the participating Member States;
implementation of the operational plan with the host Member State;
cooperation between the host and the country of return;
effective coordination between the Member States’ border guards;
exchanges of information and best practice;
assessment by the Commission of the need to improve cooperation between Member States in the field of border control;
clarification of the role of the European Migration Agency (EMA);
the establishment of a European Migration Observatory (EMO);
a practical handbook for implementing and managing the strategy (the ‘EurOSUR Handbook’).
FROM WHEN DOES THE IMPLEMENTING DECISION APPLY?
The regulation has applied since 1 January 2019.
BACKGROUND
The EU has adopted a number of measures to improve its border management, in particular:
Directive 2013/32/EU on common procedures for granting and withdrawing international protection (OJ L 180, 29.6.2013, pp. 1-8);
Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2018 /1725 on common rules for implementing the common migration strategy (see summary);
Decision (EU), Euratom (EC) 2019/1724 on the establishment of an EU Border Management Agency (See summary).
KEY TERMS
* Common migration strategy: a common EU approach to the management of migration.
ACT
Commission Implementing Decision 2014/856/EU of 12 December 2014 laying down the rules and implementing measures relating to the establishment and operation of the Common Migration Strategy.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force
Deadline for transposition in the Member State
Official Journal
Commission Delegated Regulation (EU).
-
OJ C 202 of 1 January 2015
RELATED ACTS
Council Directive (EU/2014/EU) 2016/680 of 26 June 2016 on common standards for the protection of persons at risk of serious injury or death in the event of illegal entry into the Union and repealing Council Directive (EEC) 2015/852 (O J L 183, 7.7.2016, p. 60).
Council Decision (CFSP) 2017/849 of 27 May 2017 on common criteria for the assessment of the needs to be met by Member States concerning the common border management framework and establishing a common framework for the reception of asylum seekers and the return of illegally staying persons.
last update 14.11.2017



Summary 32:
Information and communications technology (ICT) is one of the world’s fastest-growing sectors, and cybersecurity is essential for its long-term sustainability. This is why the European Union (EU) is establishing a European cybersecurity certification framework.
ACT
Decision (CFSP) 2017/856/CFSP of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2017 establishing a framework for the certification of cybersecurity products and services in the field of Information and Communications Technology (ICT).
SUMMARY
WHAT DOES THIS DECISION DO?
It establishes a framework to ensure that cybersecurity products, ICT services and processes can be used safely and securely in the EU.
It also sets out the requirements for cybersecurity certification schemes.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The framework applies to all ICT products and processes, whether they are new or used for the first time. It does not apply to existing products, services or processes that have been in use for less than 5 years.
Certification schemes are based on a set of criteria, such as:
the use of the products or processes by end-users;
the risks associated with the use of those products or services; and
the security of the information and communication technologies (ICTs) used by end users.
Evaluation of the cybersecurity certification scheme
The evaluation of the certification scheme is carried out by the European Network of Information Security Assurance Authorities (ENISA), an independent body set up under the auspices of the Commission.
EnISA is responsible for the assessment and certification of products, processes and services covered by the framework. It is assisted by a Management Board, which is composed of representatives of the Member States and chaired by an Executive Director. The Executive Director is appointed by the Commission and has a term of office of 4 years. The Commission appoints the Executive Director for a renewable 5-year term.
The Executive Director may sub-delegate certain powers to the Management Board.
Role of ENISA
The management board:
is responsible for:
assisting the Commission in the implementation of the framework;
advising and advising the Commission on market, cybersecurity certification, and standardisation;
providing the Commission with information and expertise on cybersecurity certification;
ensuring that ENISA is independent and transparent in its activities;
monitoring and evaluating the application of the EU cybersecurity certification system;
coordinating the activities of the management board and the Commission;
exchanging information and best practice on cybersecurity with the European Commission and other relevant bodies;
contributing to the development of a common approach to cybersecurity and the harmonisation of ICT security standards;
promoting cybersecurity by design and privacy-by-design;
supporting the work of the Europol Cybersecurity Centre (EC3) at Europol, CERT-EU and, where appropriate, the European External Action Service (EU INTCEN).
The Management Board:
has the power to adopt delegated acts;
is chaired by a Commission representative;
appoints one or more members of its Management Board;
has powers to:
decide on the number of members to be appointed;
make recommendations to the Commission, the Council and the European Economic and Social Committee;
take decisions on the budget;
decides on the composition of its management board;
draw up and adopt the annual work programme;
approves the work programme for ENISA.
FROM WHEN DOES THE DECISION APPLY?
The decision has applied since 28 June 2017 and had to become law in the European Member States by 28 June 2018.
BACKGROUND
   
 
For more information, see:
‘Cybersecurity certification framework’ on the ENISA website.
* KEY TERMS
* Cybersecurity: the ability of an ICT product or process to detect, prevent and respond to cybersecurity threats and to protect its users and users’ data.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force: Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member State
Official Journal
Decisions (CFPS) 2017-856
27.3.2017
-
OJ L 127 of 28.3 of the same day
RELATED ACTS
Regulation (EC) No 596/2014/EU — Implementing Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 1099/2014 on cybersecurity (see summary) (Codified version) (OJ C 202, 7.8.2014, pp. 1-8)
last update 14.11.2014



Summary 33:
Regulation (EU) 2019/849 — the transmission of information on gross national income (GNI) data
Regulation(EU) 2020/848 — the transfer of information about gross national incomes (GNIs) to Eurostat
SUMMARY OF:
Implementing Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2017/829 — the transposition of the European system of GNI data
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to improve the comparability, reliability and comparability of the Gross National Income* data collected by the European Commission (Eurostat).
KEY POINTS
Each year, EU countries provide Eurostat with information on their Gross National Incomes (GNI) aggregates and their components.
The data are used to compile the EU’s common statistical programme, the European System of Accounts (ESA 2010), which is the basis for the European statistical system.
Eurostat then transmits the data to the European Statistical System Committee (ESSC), which assesses the reliability, comparability and comprehensibility of the data and adopts the implementing acts.
EU countries must ensure that the data are reliable, exhaustive and comparable. They must also ensure that:
the sources and methods used are reliable;
the data are accurate and comparable;
data are produced in a way that is consistent with ESA 2010;
there is no duplication or overloading of data;
information is communicated at the same time and in a timely manner;
all GNI aggregates are comparable and comparable to those provided by the EU countries.
In addition information is provided by Eurostat to the ESA 2010 data.
FROM WHEN DOES THE IMPLEVELATION APPLY?
The regulation has applied since 18 April 2017.
BACKGROUND
   
The European system is based on the Gross national income* and gross domestic product* (GDP) data collected in each EU country.
For more information, see:
‘GNI’ on Eurostat's website.
KEY TERMS
* Gross national Income: the sum of all the income and wealth of an economy, including taxes, subsidies, social benefits, taxes paid by households, social contributions and taxes on goods and services.
* GNI: the total value of all goods and income, including income from production, consumption and services, including capital, capital formation, investment, capital movements and capital outlay.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Council Regulation (EC) No 608/2014 of 26 May 2014 laying down implementing measures for the system of own resources (ESA) (OJ L 168, 7.6.2014, pp. 1-8)
Amending act(s)
Entry INTO FORCE
Date of application:
18.4.2017
-
OJ C 202, 18.8.2017, p. 1)
RELATED ACTS
Council Decision (CFSP) No 549/2013 of 27 February 2013 establishing the European Statistics System (ESSS) and repealing Council Decision 89/382/EEC, Euromatom establishing a Committee on the Statistical Programmes of the EU (OJC L 87, 31.3.2013, pp 1-2)
Regulations (EC, EC) No 322/97 on Community Statistics, and Council Decision 2004/7/EC establishing a committee on the statistical programme of the Community (EC), and Council Decisions 2004/8/EC, 2004/9/EC and 2004/10/EC of the Council establishing a European Statistics Committee, and Commission Decision 2005/856/EC on the Community Statistics System, and amending Council Decision 1999/858/EC (EC).
Regulating (EU), EC, EC and Euratom Implementing Decision (EU/EC) 2018/1101 of the Commission on the transmission and dissemination of the information on Gross national incomes and GNI (GNIs) (Official Journal L 157, 28.5.2018, pp 2-5)
last update 14.02.2019



Summary 34:
EU type-approval of vehicles, systems, components and separate technical units following the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union (EU) — type approval of vehicles and systems
EU type–approval requirements after the UK withdraws from the EU
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2019/849 — type–applicability of EU type–approved vehicles and components to the EU market
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out the rules for the application for type approval in the EU and the placing on the market, registration, sale or entry into service of new and existing vehicles.
It aims to ensure equal treatment of manufacturers affected by the withdrawal from the UK.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to the following types of vehicles:
vehicles, systems*, components*, separate technical unit* and separate components* (e.g. brakes, steering systems, brakes, exhaust systems, etc.).
It does not apply to:
cars and light commercial vehicles;
trucks;
motor coaches;
cabotage vehicles; and
trams.
Type-approvals are granted by the competent national authority of the EU country in which the vehicle is built.
Application for a type‑approval
Manufacturers must submit a request to the competent authority of an EU country.
The competent authority is responsible for granting the type-approved approval to a vehicle, system or component.
Applications must include:
a description of the vehicle’s technical characteristics and a description of its conformity assessment;
the type of the type of vehicle and its intended use;
a list of the types of vehicle, systems and components for which it has taken over the obligations of the UK authority;
an application for the approval of a vehicle or a component for which the UK has taken approval.
If the competent EU country has not granted the type‐approval, the manufacturer must submit an application to the European Commission, which, in turn, forwards it to the relevant national authority.
Where the Commission accepts the application, it must inform the other EU countries’ competent authorities and, if necessary, the European Economic and Social Committee (EEC) of the reasons for its decision.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
   
It has applied since 30 March 2019. EU countries had to incorporate it into national law by 30 March 2020.
BACKGROUND
The European Commission has adopted a number of delegated acts to ensure the smooth operation of the regulation.
For more information, see:
‘EU type approval’ on the Commission's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Vehicle: any vehicle or system intended for sale or putting into service within the EU, whether it is new, second-hand, third-hand or used as a service vehicle, or used by a third-party service company.
ACT
 
Council Regulation (EU), Euratom of 29 March 2019 on type-approval requirements for vehicles (OJ L 168, 30.4.2019, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EC) No 168/2013 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 04.01.2020



Summary 35:
European Police Office (Europol) — rules on the organisation and functioning of the European Police Office
Europol — rules governing the Organisation and operation of Europol
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) 2016/680 — rules establishing Europol (the Europol Convention)
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes the rules governing Europol, the European Union’s police office, and lays down the principles and procedures for its organisation and operation.
It aims to ensure that Europol is independent from national law enforcement authorities.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to all EU countries and non-EU countries. It does not apply to:
the United Kingdom (1), Denmark (2), Ireland (3), Luxembourg (4), Norway (5), Sweden (6), Switzerland (7), the United States of America (8) and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland (UK);
the European Economic Area (EEA); and
the EU countries’ national supervisory authorities (Eurojust, Eurojust and OLAF).
It does not affect the powers of national police or judicial authorities (e.g. Eurojust or Eurojust).
Objectives
The purpose of the regulation is to establish Europol as a European police office (EPO) with the aim of:
ensuring the protection of the fundamental rights and freedoms of natural persons;
protecting the security and integrity of the internal market;
promoting cooperation between EU countries in the field of law enforcement;
exerciprocal access to information and cooperation between national police and judicial and judicial authorities;
providing the European Commission with information on criminal matters;
facilitating the exchange of information between national and international law enforcement and judicial bodies;
contributing to the prevention, detection and investigation of crime.
The EPO has a management board consisting of representatives of EU countries, the Commission and Europol. It is chaired by an Executive Director who is appointed by the Council of the EU and is responsible for the overall management of the EPO. The Executive Director is assisted by a Management Board which is composed of representatives from each EU country. The EDPO is also assisted by an Audit Committee and an Ethics Committee.
Management board
The management board is comprised of a director and a vice-president who are appointed for an 18-month term of office. The Director is responsible to the Management Board and the Commission for the implementation of the Regulation. The Vice-President and the Executive Director are responsible for:
monitoring and evaluating Europol;
assessing the effectiveness of the Europol programme and its implementation;
making recommendations to the management board;
approving Europol's annual report;
adopting the annual report by the Commission.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
It entered into force on 1 January 2017.
BACKGROUND
The Europol convention replaces the Convention based on Article K.3 of the Treaty on European Union, on the establishment of an EU police office.
For more information, see:
‘Europol’ on the European Parliament's website.
* KEY TERMS
* EPO: the European Public Prosecutor's Office.
ACT
Council Regulation (EC) No 652/2016/680 of 12 December 2016 establishing the rules establishing a European Police Organisation (the Epol Convention).
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Decision 2009/371/JHA
1.1.2009
-
OJ L 325, 11.12.2009, pp. 1-8
RELATED ACTS
Council Decision 2009/935/JHHA of 30 November 2009 determining the list of third countries and organisations with which Europol may conclude agreements with which it may exchange information and exchanging information with.
Council Recommendation No R(87) 15 (13).
Last updated: 27.08.2009



Summary 36:
Financial assistance for Member States affected by the COVID-19 outbreak (2020-2022)
Financial assistance to Member States harmed by the impact of COVID‐19 outbreak
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) 2019/849 — application for financial assistance to a Member State in difficulties or seriously threatened with severe difficulties caused by an exceptional occurrence beyond its control
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It allows the Council of the European Union to grant financial assistance in the event of an exceptional situation causing serious difficulties or serious threats to the economic and social stability of an EU Member State.
KEY POINTS
The aim of the regulation is to enable the Council to grant assistance to an EU country that is in difficulty or is seriously threatened to be in difficulties due to an exceptional event beyond the control of the Member State concerned.
The Member State may request financial assistance under the regulation where:
its actual and possibly also planned public expenditure has suddenly and severely increased as of 1 February 2020 due to national measures directly related to short-time work schemes and similar measures to address the socio-economic effects of the exceptional occurrence caused by COVID‑19 outbreak;
its expenditure has not been covered by its actual budget as of the date on which the request for assistance was made; or
its general public finances have not been in sufficient shape to cover the expected increase in public expenditure;
the Member State’s gross domestic product (GDP) has fallen below the level at the time the request is made.
In addition to the above, the Member States may also request assistance if:
the general public deficit has increased by more than 5 % of the Gross Domestic Product as of an average Member State; or if the gross government deficit is greater than the amount of the general government deficit as of that Member State as a whole;
a Member State is experiencing difficulties in its balance of payments or its gross national income as a percentage of the total gross domestic Product (GNP).
The financial assistance is granted in the form of a loan granted by the Union to the beneficiary Member State, which may be guaranteed by the participating Member States or by the European Central Bank (ECB).
Beneficiaries of the financial assistance must:
open a special account with its national central bank for the management of the loan;
notify the European Commission of the decision to grant the loan, the reasons for the request and the terms and conditions of the agreement;
allow the Commission to verify compliance with the prudential rules laid down in the regulation;
provide the Commission with a report on the application for the loan within 6 months of receiving the loan.
If the Commission considers that the application is not justified, it may adopt a decision to extend the period of availability of the instrument until 31 December 2022.
FROM WHEN DOES THE REGULARITY APPLY?
The regulation entered into force on 8 May 2020.
BACKGROUND
   
The COVID–19 outbreak and the need for an urgent response to the consequences of that outbreak prompted the creation of the EU financial assistance instrument.
For more information, see:
‘Financial assistance’ (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Member State: any Member State which is in difficulties, seriously threatened, or seriously in difficulty due to the effects of an extreme event beyond its own control.
* Financial assistance: financial assistance provided by the EU to an individual or a group of individual Member States.
ACT
Council Regulation (EC) No 749/2019 of 8 May 2019 laying down the application procedure for the grant of financial assistance pursuant to Article 122(2) TFEU of the Treaty establishing the European System of Central Banks (OJ L 157, 9.6.2019, pp. 1-8)
RELATED ACTS
 
  The European Central Banks adopted a communication on the basis of the Council Regulation (Euratom) No 696/2014 on the establishment of a facility providing medium-term financial assistance for EU countries’ balances of payments.
last update 14.01.2021



Summary 37:
Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010 — resolution of credit institutions and credit institutions (CCPs) (recovery and resolution of CCPs) (REFERENCES)
Resolution and recovery rules for credit institutions
Resolving and recovery plans for Credit Institutions (RECOVERIES)
SUMMARY
WHAT DOES THIS REGULATION DO?
It lays down the rules for the resolution and recovery of credit institution (CCP) credit institutions in the European Union (EU).
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to all credit institutions* (i.e. credit institutions) in the EU. It does not apply to credit institutions.
It applies to:
credit institutions (e.g. banks, insurance companies, investment firms, pension funds, investment funds, etc.) that are not credit institutions;
the clearing members* of clearing members’ financial instruments;
competent and independent credit institutions, such as banks and investment firms;
capital markets;
clearing members* and their clients* that are regulated by the EU’s Single Supervisory Mechanism (SSM);
the cross-border provision of credit services by credit institutions that are based in the same EU Member State.
The resolution of a credit institution is subject to the same rules as the recovery and resolution rules.
Resolutions
The rules for resolution are set out in the regulation. They include:
the right of the resolution authority to adopt a resolution plan and the right of shareholders and the board of the CCP to participate in the resolution process;
a right to vote on the resolution plan.
the rights of the shareholders and board to decide whether the resolution is to be brought under resolution;
rights of the board and the shareholders to decide on any measures to be taken by the CCP in the event of insolvency.
A resolution authority must communicate to the resolution college any measure proposed by the resolution. The resolution authority is responsible for:
preparing a recovery plan for the CCP;
monitoring the resolution procedure;
identifying any obstacles to resolution.
If the resolution fails to achieve the objectives of the recovery plan or if the resolution does not meet its objectives, it must submit a report to the European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA). The report must contain:
a description of the reasons why the resolution has not been adopted;
an estimate of the value of the assets and liabilities transferred under resolution and the amount of the proceeds to be transferred from each of the CCs under resolution, as well as a description of how the assets will be transferred to the other CCP under resolution if the assets are transferred.
Amendments to the regulation
The amending regulation has been amended several times. The most recent amendments are as follows:
Amending Regulation (EC) No 648/2012 (see summary) introduces a new chapter in the definition of ‘credit institutions’, which replaces the definition in Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 806/2014 (see below). The new chapter introduces the concept of a ‘resolution authority’ and sets out the responsibilities of the authority responsible for resolving a resolution. It also introduces the requirement for the competent authority to take all necessary measures to prevent the CCP from undertaking any of the actions referred to in Article 1 of this regulation.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
The original regulation entered into force on 1 January 2014. It had to become law in the Member States by 1 January 2016.
BACKGROUND
The European Commission has adopted a number of measures to modernise and streamline the regulation, including:
Implementing Regulation (Euratom) 2019/856, which aims to improve the functioning of the single market and the transparency of the internal market;
Delegated Regulation (CFSP) 2019-858, which sets out rules on the establishment and operation of the Single Resolution Mechanism.
For more information, see:
Credit institutions (European Commission).
* KEY TERMS
* Credit institutions: institutions that provide credit institutions with credit and investment services.
* Resolution authority: the person or body that decides whether to put an asset or a company under resolution or to put it under recovery.
ACT
Council Regulation (U.S.A. 2015/852/JHA of 12 December 2015 laying down the conditions for the application of the Resolution and Recovery Regulation and repealing Regulation (US) No 552/2009 (OJ L 347, 28.12.2015, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (USA) No 345/2009 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
REFERRED DOCUMENTS
   
Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 March 2015 on the framework for the establishment, operation and supervision of the capital markets in the Community and repealing Council Regulation (



Summary 38:
European Year for Railways (2013-2020)
European Year (2013 - 2020)
SUMMARY OF:
Directive 2013/29/EU on the European Year for the European Railways
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DIRECTIVE?
 
   
It aims to promote the European Union’s (EU) single railway area (the ‘single European railway area’).
KEY POINTS
The directive establishes the year as the year where the rules agreed under the Fourth Railway Package will be implemented throughout the EU, namely on the opening of the market of domestic passenger services, on reducing costs and administrative burden for railway undertakings operating across the EU and on providing the European Commission with additional tasks that aim to lower technical barriers.
The objectives of the year are to:
raise the profile of rail transport in the EU;
raise awareness of the importance of rail in terms of economic, social and environmental sustainability;
promote the use of the rail network in the context of the recovery of the economy;
increase the number of passengers and freight carried by rail;
encourage the development of a single European rail area;
improve the efficiency of the European rail network;
ensure the smooth operation of the railway network and its smooth operation.
In addition, the directive sets out a number of objectives for the year, including:
promoting the role of the EU as a single market for rail transport;
establishing the single European market for passenger rail services;
raising the visibility of rail services in Europe;
reducing costs and the administrative burden of rail undertakings;
providing the Commission with a European label to promote goods and products transported by rail so as to encourage businesses to switch their transport to rail.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS DIRECTIVE APPLY?
It has applied since 1 January 2013. EU countries had to incorporate it into national law by 1 January 2014.
BACKGROUND
 The European Green Deal is a new growth strategy that aims to transform the EU into a fair and prosperous society, with a modern, resource-efficient and competitive economy where there are no net emissions of greenhouse gases in 2050 and where economic growth is decoupled from resource use.
For more information, see:
European Green Deal (European Commission).
* KEY TERMS
* Passenger rail: the means of transport by which goods and passengers are transported within the EU.
* Rail transport: the transport of goods by means of a rail system.
MAIN DOCUMENT
  Ибранска нарка (2013/29)
  (OJ L 183 of 1.1.2013, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Directive 2013/28/EU have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
 			
  The European Green Fund for Strategic Development (EFFRD) is the main instrument for the implementation of the Green Deal. The EFFRD is funded by the European Investment Bank (EIB) and the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF).
The European Commission is responsible for implementing the EFD.
Regulation (EC) No 596/2013/2013 on the establishment of a European Union Railways Agency (EURRA) and amending Directive 2012/34/EU (see summary) and repealing Directive 2011/53/EC (see amending act(s).
Regulations (EC, Euratom) No 652/2013, (EC), (EU), (Euratom) and (EU, EFTA) 2016/856, (EU and EFTA), and Regulation (EU/2020) (see consolidated version).
last update 14.01.2016



Summary 39:
The European Social Development Fund (ESDC)
The European social development fund (ESSD)
SUMMARY OF:
Decision (CFSP) 2016/2382 on the establishment of the European Social and Development Fund
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DECISION?
   
It establishes a European social and development fund to support the European Union’s (EU) social partners in the field of education and training.
KEY POINTS
The ESDC is the main instrument of the EU's social partners and is funded by the European Structural and Investment Funds (ESIF) and the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund (EMFF).
The decision sets out the structure and structure of the ESDC.
It also defines the role of the Steering Committee, which is responsible for the organisation and the running of the fund.
The purpose of the decision is to lay down the rules and procedures for the establishment and operation of ESDC, as well as the financial rules for its operation.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS DECISION APPLY?
It has applied since 1 January 2017.
BACKGROUND
 
The ESCD was established under Regulation (EC) No 596/2008 (see summary).
For more information, see:
European Social Development fund (European Commission).
MAIN DOCUMENT
 			
Council Decision (CFSC/2016/2383 of 12 December 2016 establishing the European Society Development Fund and laying down the structure, organisation and running procedures for its establishment (OJ L 183, 1.1.2017, pp. 1-24)
Successive amendments to Decision (EC/2016 /2383 have been incorporated in the basic text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
  (1)
Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 609/2013 of the EC Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 laying down detailed rules and regulations for the implementation of Council Joint Action 2008/550/CFSP (Joint Action 2007/856/JHA) and repealing Council Decision 2013/189/CFSpreading the benefits of the Common Provisions of the Framework Programme for the Improvement of Research and Innovation (CIPR) to the European social partners (COPR) (CFCP) (Official Journal C 202, 12.12.2013, pp.).
last update 04.01.2017



Summary 40:
Safe reuse of treated urban waste water for agricultural irrigation (reused water for drinking and animal feed)
Safe reuse (reclaimed water for agriculture)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) 2016/856 — safe reuse of urban wastewater for agricultural use
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
   
 
It aims to ensure that treated urban wastewater* is reused for agricultural purposes.
KEY POINTS
The regulation sets out minimum requirements for the safe reuse* of treated municipal waste water.
The aim is to protect the environment, human and animal health and the free movement of agricultural products.
It does not apply to waste water intended for further specific uses, including reuse for industrial purposes, which is covered by Directive 91/271/EEC on the protection of groundwater against pollution and deterioration (see summary).
EU countries must ensure that:
reused urban wastewater is treated so as to ensure it is safe for use in agricultural purposes;
the water is treated and reused in accordance with the best available scientific knowledge and internationally recognised water reuse standards and practices;
there is no risk to human or animal health or the environment;
it is safe to use the water for the purposes for which it is intended.
Reused water may not be used for the production of milk or other dairy products, unless there is a risk to the health or safety of humans or animals, or to the environment.
In addition, EU countries must take appropriate preventive measures to prevent the spread of the pathogens Campylobacter, Rotavirus, Cryptosporporium, Salmonemoneus and Salmonella, as well as the presence of certain micro-organisms in the water used for farming.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULTRY TO APPLYORKER RECOMMENDANGELATION
The legislation entered into force on 1 July 2016.
BACKGROUND
The water reuse regulation is one of a series of measures designed to protect Europe’s water resources against the adverse effects of climate change and drought.
For more information, see:
‘Reclaimed water’ on the European Commission's website.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Council Regulation (EC) No 856/2016
1.7.2016
-
OJ L 183 of 1.7 of the following date
Amending act(s)
Entry INTO FORCE
Entry in force
Final date
Regulations (EU, Euratom) 2017/2177 and (EU), Euratom 2017/3177
1 July 2017
- the date of entry into force of Regulation (Euratom) 2018/852
1 August 2018
- The date of application of Regulation(EU) 2018 /856
1 October 2018
1 January 2019
1 February 2020
1 March 2021
1 April 2020
2 March 2020
3 June 2020
4 June 2021
4 July 2020
5 July 2021
6 June 2022
7 July 2022
8 July 2024
9 July 2023
10 July 2026
1 September 2027
1 November 2022
1 December 2024
1 May 2025
1 June 2030
2 June 2027 and 1 October 2031
5 June 2028
6 July 2031 and 1 November 2033
7 September 2031.
1) KEY TERMS
* Reused water: wastewater that has been treated in an urban wastewater treatment plant and is then used for agricultural or other purposes (i.e. for drinking, cooking or domestic purposes).
* Urban waste water: waste water from agglomerations of less than 2 000 p.m. or more than 100,000 m2.
* Agricultural water: water used to irrigate a crop, unless the water is used for other purposes, such as drinking or domestic use.
MAIN DOCUMENT
 			
Commission Regulation (EU)* 2016/884 of 20 July 2016 laying down minimum standards for safe reuse in the field of water reuse and amending Regulation (CFSP) No 552/2014 (OJ C 202, 7.8.2016, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (UE) 2016 /884 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
  (1)
Directive 91/273/EEU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 December 2001 establishing a European Union Water Framework Directive and repealing Council Directive 2003/4/EC (Official Journal L 347, 29.12.2001, p. 1)
See consolidated version.
last update 04.11.2017



Summary 41:
Mobility of highly qualified workers from non-EU countries to the European Union (EU)
Mobility within the EU
SUMMARY OF:
Directive 2014/40/EU on mobility of highly skilled workers from third countries
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DIRECTIVE?
It aims to encourage highly qualified migrants to move freely between the EU and the European Economic Area (EEA).
It sets out the conditions for granting and withdrawing an EU blue card to highly skilled migrants.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The directive applies to highly qualified foreign nationals (i.e. those with a high level of education or training) who are highly skilled and who have the necessary skills to obtain a highly qualified employment contract in an EU Member State.
It does not apply to:
highly qualified workers who are not nationals of an EU country;
highly skilled workers who have been granted international protection (e.g. the protection granted by the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organised Crime (UNCTO) or the International Labour Organization (ILO);
workers who are in the process of obtaining a degree or training, but who have not yet obtained a degree, training or certificate of qualification in the Member State concerned.
Admission, refusal and withdrawal
The application for an EU Blue Card is made by a highly skilled worker from a non-European Union country who meets the following criteria:
a minimum age of 18;
a high school diploma or equivalent qualification;
an education level of at least equivalent to that of a Member State of origin or country of nationality;
the holder of a high-quality job;
degree of training or qualification in an equivalent degree in the subject of the application.
The Member State in which the application is made is responsible for determining whether the applicant should be admitted to the EU.
If an application is rejected, the applicant must submit a new application within 30 days of the original application being rejected. The application must contain the following information:
the applicant’s name, address, date of birth, nationality, place of residence, contact details and contact details, and the reason for the rejection;
details of the employer and employer;
where an application has been rejected, a reason must be given for the decision, including the reasons for the refusal and the possibility to apply for a new card.
A Member State may refuse to admit an applicant if the following conditions are fulfilled:
they are not highly skilled;
they do not have a high degree of education;
their qualifications are not equivalent to those of a national of the EU country in which they wish to work;
there is no possibility to obtain employment in another Member State for a period of more than 6 months after the end of the period of entry into the EU;
it is not possible to obtain an employment contract with the same employer in the same Member State as the one for which they are seeking admission.
Member States may refuse an application if the applicant:
does not meet the criteria for admission;
has not obtained a high quality job within the period covered by this directive;
is not qualified for employment in the EU as a whole; or
has been unemployed for more than 3 months.
Application procedure
A simplified procedure is in place for the application for a blue card. The Member State which receives the application must:
allow the application to be processed in a language easily understood by the applicant, in accordance with the law of that Member State;
accept the application without delay;
implement the necessary measures to facilitate the application;
ensure that the applicant is accompanied by a copy of the necessary documents, such as a travel document and a passport;
provide the applicant with all the necessary information, including details of the employment contract, the employer, the social security number and the contact details.
An application may be refused if:
it has not been processed within the time limit set out in the application,
the application is incomplete or incomplete;
in the absence of a job offer, the application has not yet been made;
for reasons of public policy or public security, it is not clear that the application would not be fulfilled.
In addition, Member States must take the necessary steps to ensure that applications are not rejected on grounds of national security or public order.
Family reunification
The conditions for family reunification are fulfilled and the decisions on the applications of family members are adopted and notified at the same time as the decision on an application for the blue card is taken.
Non-EU nationals who are members of the extended family of nationals of the Member States concerned are granted the same rights and obligations as nationals of their Member State, except in the case of the following cases:
family members are entitled to the same level of protection as their spouses and unmarried partners;
children under 18 years of age are granted equal protection under the same conditions as their parents;
unmarried partners are entitled the same protection as spouses or unmarried partners



Summary 42:
Funding for the European Migration Network (EMN) 2017-2020
Funding towards the European migration network (EMMN) 2017–2020
SUMMARY OF:
Implementing Regulation (EU) 2021/1060 — financial rules for the implementation of the InvestEU programme
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes a framework for the EU’s investment in migration and asylum policy.
It aims to ensure the continuation of the EU migration network set up by Council Decision 2008/381/EC and to provide financial assistance in accordance with its objectives and tasks.
KEY POINTS
The EMN is the main instrument of the investment programme for the period from 1 January 2021 to 31 December 2020.
The investment programme is funded by the European Investment Bank (EIB) and the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF).
The main objectives of the EMN are to:
increase the number of asylum-seekers in the EU;
improve the reception infrastructure in EU countries;
reduce illegal immigration;
ensure a high level of protection for victims of trafficking in human beings;
promote cooperation between EU countries in the field of migration;
contribute to the sustainable development of the European asylum system;
support the sustainable management of the migration network.
In addition, the EU is contributing to the creation of a European Asylum and Migration Network.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS IMPLEMENTATION REGULATE APPLY?
Regulation (EC) No 596/2014 has applied since 1 January 2015.
Amending Regulation (EEC) 2019/849 has applied from 1 February 2019.
BACKGROUND
The EU migration policy is based on the EU acquis (the common European asylum and migration policy).
For more information, see:
InvestEU (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Migration: the process by which EU countries accept and process asylum applications.
* Asylum: the procedure by which a non-EU national is admitted to the EU as a national of an EU country.
ACT
Commission Implementing Regulation(EU) 2015/1017 of 14 March 2015 laying down the rules for implementing the Investment in Migration and Asylum Policy (InvestEU) (OJ L 107, 26.3.2015, pp. 1–8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 529/2014 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED ACTS
Regulating (EU, Euram) 2019–849 of the Council of 11 March 2019 establishing the European Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund (Euram) (Codified version).
last update 14.06.2019



Summary 43:
Family leave and parental leave: ensuring equal treatment between men and women
Family leaves and paternity leave: guaranteeing equal treatment among women and men
SUMMARY OF:
Directive (EU) 2016/17/EU on family leave
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DIRECTIVE?
It aims to ensure equal treatment of mothers and fathers who are parents and carers at work.
It sets out minimum requirements for the protection of the rights of both parents and workers when it comes to family leave.
KEY POINTS
The directive applies to all EU countries, except Denmark, Ireland and the United Kingdom (1), Iceland and Liechtenstein (1).
It does not apply to the EU countries that have not ratified the 1989 United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child (UNCTAD) or the Protocol on the Status of Women in the Employment Relationships of the International Labour Organization (OLIHR).
Parental leave
EU countries must ensure that:
employers respect the right to parental leave and the right of workers to leave the labour market before the birth of a child;
parental leave is not subject to a minimum period of service;
the duration of parental leave is subject to the employer’s decision;
workers are entitled to a maximum period of 6 months’ paid leave;
a maximum duration of 12 weeks of paid parental leave, with the possibility of a maximum of 6 weeks of unpaid leave, and no more than twice as long.
Employers are required to take into account:
the age of the child,
the gender of the worker,
a minimum duration of the leave and
the nature of the working relationship between the worker and the employer.
Flexible working arrangements
Workers should be able to specify the period of leave they wish to take and the reasons for any refusal of such a request or for any postponement of such arrangements.
The employer is responsible for ensuring that flexible working arrangements are available to all workers, irrespective of whether they are mothers, fathers or carers. Employers are also responsible for taking into account the needs of children and their families.
Worker rights
The employee is entitled to:
protection from dismissal and the burden of proof
protection against discrimination
protection of health and safety at work
the right to working days and working hours.
Protection from dismissal
The right to dismissal is protected against dismissal, dismissal or any other form of dismissal, except in cases of serious injury or damage to the health or safety of the person concerned.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS DIRECTIVE APPLY?
The legislation entered into force on 1 January 2017. EU countries had to incorporate it into national law by 1 January 2018.
BACKGROUND
   
 
For more information, see:
‘Family leave’ on the European Commission's Directorate-General for Employment and Social Affairs website.
* KEY TERMS
* Parental leave: a period of time during which a parent or carer is absent from the work place to care for a child or to provide care for the child.
MAIN DOCUMENT
  Ебранска гаканка  баксанда блакка (Parental Directive) (OJ L 31, 1.2.2016, pp. 1-2)
Successive amendments to Directive (EU)* 2016/16/EU have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
  (1)
  The European Commission adopts Regulation (EC) No 596/2014 on the protection and recognition of parental and paternal leave (see summary) and amends Council Directive 2010/18/EU with regard to the protection granted to workers who have a child under the age of 18 and to employees who have children under 18.
See consolidated version.
Council Directive 2007/81/EC of 15 December 1997 concerning the Framework Agreement on part-time work concluded by UNICE, CEEP and the ETUC and amending Council Directive 2004/29/EC and Council Directive 97/84/EC on the recognition of paternity leave and repealing Council Directives 92/85/EEC and 2006/54/EC.
last update 14.01.2017



Summary 44:
Criminal offences and sanctions in the area of fraud affecting the EU’s financial interests (Directive 2016/43/EU)
Criminal acts and sanctions relating to fraud affecting:
fraud affecting the Union's financial interests
SUMMARY OF:
Directive (EU) 2016/42/EU on the definition of criminal offences and the imposition of criminal sanctions
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DIRECTIVE?
It aims to improve the protection of the European Union (EU), its institutions, bodies, offices and agencies against fraud affecting their financial interests.
It lays down minimum rules relating to the definition and application of criminal and administrative sanctions in this area.
KEY POINTS
 
The directive applies to all EU countries, except Denmark, Ireland, Luxembourg and the United Kingdom (1).
It does not apply to:
non-EU countries;
the European Commission; and
the Court of Auditors and the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF).
EU countries must take the necessary measures to establish their jurisdiction over the criminal offences referred to in the directive.
The offences covered by the directive are those that are punishable by a maximum sanction of at least 4 years of imprisonment or a maximum term of imprisonment for a maximum of 5 years, or for an advantage of less than EUR 10 000 or an advantage not exceeding €10 000.
In addition, EU countries are required to introduce measures to ensure that the maximum level of sanctions does not go beyond the level of financial sanctions applicable to the offences defined in this directive. These measures must be effective and proportionate to the seriousness of the offence and not exceed the maximum amount of imprisonment.
Where an offence is punishable by criminal sanctions, the maximum period of imprisonment should be at least 5 years from the time the offence was committed. However, if the offender is subject to the Staff Regulations at the time of the criminal offence, the limitation period should not exceed 5 years.
Limitation periods
The limitation periods for criminal offences affecting the financial interests are set out in the annex to the directive, as well as in its Annex II.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS DIRECTIVE APPLYEAR OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
   
It entered into force on 1 January 2016. EU countries had to incorporate it into national law by 1 January 2017.
BACKGROUND
 The directive is one of a series of measures designed to protect the EU against fraud. The other measures are:
Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 883/2013 establishing the European Commission's Office for the Protection of the EU's Financial Interests (Euratom) and repealing Directive 2005/60/EC (see summary);
Council Directive 2006/70/EC establishing a framework for cooperation between national authorities in the fight against fraud;
Council Regulation (EU).
KEY TERMS
* Fraud: any act or omission to commit or attempt to commit a criminal offence.
* Financial gain: any gain or loss by a person or entity which is not the result of the exercise of a legitimate right or duty of the person or of the body or body concerned.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Council Directives
1.1.2016
-
OJ L 165 of 1.6.2016.
Amending act(s)
Entry in force
Date of entry into force
Final date for implementation in the member States
1 January 2017
1 year after the entry in force of the new directive
1 month after the date of application of the directive
2 years after the expiry of the current directive
3 months after that date
4 months after the application of this directive
5 months following that date.
Last updated: 30.08.2016



Summary 45:
Ban on interchange fees for debit card transactions
Ban on the application of interchange fees
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 1093/2010 on the prohibition of credit and debit card interchange fees in the field of electronic payments
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to ban interchange fees* for debit and credit card transactions* in the European Union (EU).
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to all payment card issuers and acquirers in the EU.
It does not apply to payment service providers (i.e. the companies that process and process transactions for the payment card companies).
It prohibits the imposition of a per transaction interchange fee on all domestic debit card payments within each payment card scheme.
The cap is 0.2 % of the annual average transaction value of all domestic transactions within each EU-wide debit card scheme, which is equivalent to 0.
EU countries may decide to lower this cap to no more than 0.5 % for domestic credit card payments, provided that the weighted average maximum cap is respected.
In addition, EU countries may set a lower per transaction credit card interchange fee cap of 0.3 % of annual average credit card transaction value.
FROM WHEN DOES THE REGULE APPLY?
  
It has applied since 9 December 2010 and had to become law in all EU countries by 9 December 2012.
BACKGROUND
The European Commission published a report on the impact of the regulation on card acceptance, card usage and the development of the single market.
For more information, see:
‘Delegated Regulation (EU) on the European Commission’s website.
KEY TERMS
* Interchange fee: a fee charged by a payment service provider to a credit or debit card issuer or acquirer to facilitate the acceptance of a payment instrument or payment application at a given point of sale.
* ATM: the interchange fee charged to a merchant to process a payment transaction between two or more payment card networks.
ACT
 
  българстансканка браксарка    гранакка (Commission Regulation (Euratom) 2018/1093 of 9 November 2018 on the restriction of the maximum annual interchange fee applicable to domestic debit cards (OJ L 347, 10.12.2018, pp. 1-8)
last update 04.01.2019



Summary 46:
Transparency of qualifications and competences in the European Union (Europass)
Transparency and mobility: Europass
SUMMARY OF:
Decision (EU) 2019/852 — Europass — European framework for the transparency of qualifications, mobility and mobility of jobseekers
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DECISION?
It establishes a single EU framework for qualifications and mobility for jobseekers and employers.
KEY POINTS
The decision sets up the Europass framework, which aims to improve the visibility of skills and qualifications in the EU and to facilitate jobseekers’ access to employment, training and mobility.
The framework is based on a set of principles and aims to:
facilitate access to the European job market for all jobseekers, employers and jobseekers;
ensure that jobseekers have access to information and guidance on qualifications, skills and mobility;
provide jobseekers with free assistance to move to another EU country and employers with information on how to recruit workers from other EU countries;
support jobseekers who wish to move abroad and employers in the process of recruiting workers.
Europass is open to all EU citizens, EU countries and non-EU countries. It does not apply to people with disabilities.
It does not replace existing national systems for the assessment and validation of qualifications or competences, but replaces them with an EU-wide single system.
This decision sets out the principles and features of the framework, including:
a single European information system;
a centralised information system for all EU nationals and EU citizens;
the Europass online platform, which is accessible to all job seekers and employers;
an assessment and verification system for qualifications;
access to training, retraining, apprenticeships and apprenticeships;
transparency of training, apprenticeship and retraining;
assessment and validation methods, including the use of standardised assessment methods;
identification and verification of skills, competences and qualifications.
In addition, the European Commission will:
monitor the implementation and future development of Europass, including through testing, and on information provided through the online platform;
cooperate on the development of web-based tools, including those developed by third parties;
informulate and implement guidelines and guidelines on the use and use of the information provided by Europass.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS DECISION APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 January 2019.
BACKGROUND
 
 			
The European Commission is responsible for the implementation of the decision.
For more information, see:
‘Europass’ on the Commission’s website.
* KEY TERMS
* Qualifications: skills, qualifications, training or training experience, including qualifications and training experience acquired in the context of an activity, such as a job, which are recognised and recognised by the competent authorities or bodies.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Council Decision (EC) No 852/2019
1.1.2019
-
OJ L 347 of 1.1 January 2019
RELATED ACTS
Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 1296/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 December 2013 laying down common rules on the mutual recognition of professional qualifications and the recognition of training and apprenticeship qualifications (Official Journal L 107 of 22.12.2013).
Last updated: 28.04.2013



Summary 47:
Statistics on the movement of goods in and out of the EU by sea (NUTS) and by land
Statistics on movements of goods within and between the EU and on land
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) 2015/849 — statistics on the movements of cargo in and between EU countries by sea
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
   
 
It sets out the rules for the transmission of statistics on trade in goods between EU Member States by sea.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to the transport of goods by sea between the Member States and to land.
It does not apply to:
goods not in containers and empty containers;
transport of goods transported by land;
traffic of goods not in and empty vessels by sea;
the carriage of goods on board ships.
EU countries must transmit the following information to the European Commission (Eurostat):
the name of the country in which the cargo is being transported;
a list of the countries in which it is being loaded or unloaded;
details of the type of cargo being transported and the country of destination (i.e. country of origin or destination);
the number of containers and tonnes of goods being transported or unloaded.
The Commission must transmit this information to Eurostat in accordance with the rules laid down in the annexes to the regulation.
Eurostat must send the Commission a report containing such information and data as it may request in order to verify the quality of the data transmitted.
Implementing the regulation
The data transmitted by EU countries must be transmitted by means of the following methods:
the transmission of data by the EU countries to the Commission;
data transmitted by the Commission to the Eurostat via the European Maritime Safety Agency (EMSA);
transmission of data from the Commission’s Directorate-General for Economic and Financial Affairs;
telecommunications between the Commission and the Commission.
FROM WHEN DOES THE REGUMENT APPLY?
The legislation entered into force on 1 January 2016.
BACKGROUND
The NUTS classification is based on the number of units of volume (TEU) of goods per tonne (TEUses of TEU-km:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
For more information, see:
‘Trade in goods’ on Eurostat's website.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member State concerned
Official Journal
Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 596/2014
1 January 2016
-
OJ L 157 of 1.1.2016
RELATED ACTS
Regulations (EU), Euratom and Euratom of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2014 on the harmonisation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to the transmission and reception of statistics in the field of transport by sea and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 652/2004 (OJ C 202/2004) (O J L 347, 12.12.2014, pp. 1-8)
Regulating (EU). 2015/919 of the Parliament and the Council on the approximation of the law of the Member states relating to transport by land, amending Council Regulations (EC, EC, EFTA) No 2111/2004, (EC), (EC). (OJC L 347 of 12.11.2015, pp 1-2)
last update 11.01.2016



Summary 48:
Statistics on rail transport — EU countries’ rail transport statistics (Regulation (EU) 2020/2032)
Statistics on railway transport — European Union (EU).
SUMMARY
WHAT DOES THIS REGULATION DO?
It lays down common rules for the production of railway transport statistics at EU level.
KEY POINTS
Each EU country must report statistics to Eurostat on the transport of passengers and freight by rail in the EU.
These statistics cover:
passenger-kilometres (passenger journeys) by rail;
transit transport (transport of goods and passengers by rail);
traffic on the rail network;
freight transport (freight and passenger-carriage);
other modes of transport (trams, coaches, semi-trailers, goods trains, etc.).
EU countries must provide Eurostat with:
the geographical coordinates and other data needed to identify and map each network segment as well as the links between segments;
information on the characteristics (including the capacity) of the trains using each rail network segment;
the characteristics of the rail infrastructure and the types of transport units used;
data on the number and types of passengers using the railway network.
Eurostat is assisted by the European Statistical System Committee (ESSC), which is composed of representatives of the EU countries and the European Commission.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
Regulation(EU) 2016/2022 has applied since 1 January 2020.
It repeals and replaces Regulation (EC) No 91/2003/2003.
BACKGROUND
For more information, see:
‘Rail transport statistics’ on Eurostat’s website.
* KEY TERMS
* Passenger km: the number of kilometres of passenger transport by rail over a distance of one kilometre (kilometre).
* Transit transport: transport of goods, passengers and other means of transport, including freight, by rail.
ACT
Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 2111/2016 of 11 December 2016 laying down common provisions for the collection, transmission and presentation of statistics on passenger transport (recast) (OJ L 317, 23.12.2016, pp. 1-8)
last update 04.01.2020



Summary 49:
Exemption from the visa requirement for non-EU nationals of non-Schengen countries
Extension of the Schengen visa-free travel period to non-European Union (EU) countries
Exemption of the visa exemption for nationals of third countries
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) 2019/856 — the extension of the period of visa exemption from the requirement for entry and transit through the EU to third countries without requiring a visa
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It extends the period for the granting of the temporary visa exemption to nationals of the non-euro area countries (non-EU countries) who do not hold the nationality of an EU country and who are holders of a travel document issued by that EU country.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to the following non-nationals:
nationals of new EU countries, nationals of new countries formerly part of and stateless persons and other persons who are not nationals of any EU country, who reside in an EU Member State and who have the right to travel without a visa.
Nationals of countries whose nationals are not part of the EU, but who are stateless or stateless and who reside outside the EU.
Non-EU country nationals who are resident in the EU but are not stateless.
The exemption does not apply to:
travel documents issued by the EU country in which the holder of the travel document is a national (i.e. an EU citizen);
travel document issued under the authority of the country in question;
the holder of a passport issued by a non-member of the European Union country;
any other person who is not a national of the Member State in which issued that travel document.
Exemptions may be granted by the Commission on the basis of a proposal from the European Parliament or the Council, or upon request by the Member States.
In addition, the Commission may adopt delegated acts to extend the duration of the exemption, subject to a number of conditions, including:
the number of days of validity of the passport;
a list of the countries for which the exemption is granted (Annex I to the regulation);
the date on which the temporary exemption is to take effect.
If the Commission considers it necessary to amend the regulation, it must consult experts designated by each Member State.
It must inform the Council and the Parliament within 90 days of its entry into force, taking into account the available resources in the consulates of the member countries and the information provided by the national authorities.
When the Commission adopts a delegated act, it is assisted by a committee composed of representatives of the Commission, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 January 2020.
BACKGROUND
 
  * KEY TERMS
* Visas: a visa is a visa issued by one or more EU countries to a country’s nationals for the purpose of entering or transiting the territory of another.
* Non-national country: a country which does not have a passport but is a party to an international agreement with the EU on the recognition of the validity of travel documents.
MAIN DOCUMENT
  Егранска ганка (Codified version) (OJ L 347, 1.12.2019, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EC), as amended by Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2019-856 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 14.01.2020



Summary 50:
Eurojust: rules of procedure and legal framework
Eurojust : rules of process
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2018/1046 — Eurojust
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out Eurojust’s legal framework and sets out the tasks and responsibilities of the European Judicial Network (Eurojust).
KEY POINTS
The regulation is based on the Treaty on European Union (TEU) and the European Criminal Police Organisation (ECPO).
It establishes Eurojust as a European judicial network (EPPO).
The EPPO is responsible for the coordination of judicial cooperation between EU countries and Eurojust. It is also responsible for investigating, prosecuting and prosecuting criminal offences.
It is the first judicial network established in the EU and is the only judicial network in the European Union.
The purpose of Eurojust is to:
facilitate the exchange of information between national judicial authorities;
support the fight against organised crime;
ensure the protection of the rights of victims and victims’ families;
promote cooperation between judicial authorities in criminal matters;
provide a forum for the exchange and exchange of experience and best practice in the field of criminal law;
facilitating cooperation between national authorities in the fight crime; and
support Eurojust in its work.
In addition, Eurojust has a number of specific tasks, such as:
monitoring criminal offences;
collecting, analysing and analysing operational personal data;
assisting in the investigation of criminal offences in EU countries;
examining and investigating criminal offences, as well as in the prosecution of criminals.
EuroJustices
The European Commission is the body responsible for Eurojust, which is composed of national representatives of EU countries.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLACE INTO FORCE?
 
   
It has applied since 6 November 2018 and had to become law in the Member States by 6 November 2019.
BACKGROUND
  (European Commission)
The Treaty on the Functioning of the EU provides for the establishment of a judicial network.
For more information, see:
‘Eurojust and the EU Judicial Network’ on the European Commission's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Eurojust:
European Judicial Network: a network of national judicial and law enforcement authorities (e.g. police, prosecutors, judicial authorities, customs authorities, etc.).
* Operational personal data (OPD): the data that EU countries collect and store on the basis of their national police and judicial authorities’ national crime databases.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition into force
Official Journal
Decision (EU) 2019/856
6.11.2019
-
OJ L 347 of 6.11.-
Amending act(s)
Entry in force
Date of transposition:
Decisions (EU)* 2019/906
7.12.2019 -
OCTOBER 2019/1048
-   The date of entry into force of the amendment to the regulation is set by Regulation (EU), Euratom.
RELATED ACTS
Council Regulation (EC) No 596/2014 of 5 March 2014 laying down the legal framework for the operation of the Eurojust Judicial Network and amending Decision (EU/JHA) 2015/852 (OJ C 202 of 5.6.2014).
Council Decision 2014/853/EU of 5 May 2014 laying out the legal basis for the creation of the EPPOP and laying down Eurojust's legal framework.
last update 04.01.2020



Summary 51:
Freezing and confiscation of instrumentalities and proceeds of crime: combating money laundering by means of criminal law (Directive (EU) 2015/849) (see summary)
Freezing/confiscating instrumentalities*
SUMMARY OF:
Directive 2014/42/EU on the freezing/fiscally controlled instrumentalities (i.e. property derived from criminal activity)
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DIRECTIVE?
It aims to prevent and combat money laundering and to confiscate instrumentalities*.
KEY POINTS
The directive aims to:
facilitate cooperation between EU countries’ competent authorities;
improve cooperation in the fight against money laundering;
ensure effective, proportionate and dissuasive criminal penalties are applied;
protect the victims of crime;
remove financial incentives which drive crime.
It does not apply to property deriving from activities of a criminal nature, including in the absence of a conviction of a specific person or persons for those activities.
EU countries must take the necessary measures to ensure that the offences referred to in Articles 3 and 4 of the directive are punishable by effective and proportionate criminal penalties.
In addition, EU countries must ensure that:
the instrumentalities are frozen and the proceeds of criminal activity are confiscated;
the confiscation is carried out in accordance with the law of the EU country in which the instrumentalities or proceeds are derived.
The confiscation may take place in the territory of a non-EU country, subject to certain conditions, such as:
an EU country’s consent to do so;
a prior consent of the person or body;
an agreement between the person concerned and an EU country.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS DIRECTIVE APPLYEARLY ENTRY INTO FORCE
The legislation entered into force on 1 January 2015. EU countries had to incorporate it into national law by 1 January 2016.
BACKGROUND
   
For more information, see:
‘Fighting money laundering’ on the European Commission's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Instrumentalities: instrumentalities: objects, goods or services that are used for the purpose of committing or attempting to commit a criminal offence. They are instrumentalities, goods, services or goods that are intended or intended to be used for a criminal purpose.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force: Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
 Directive 2013/36/EU
1.1.2015
-
OJ L 183 of 14.6.2013
Amending act(s)
Entry in force: date of entry into force
Deadlines for transpose in the member States
official Journal
Regulation (EC) No 1169/2013
1 January 2014
1 February 2014
-   The European Commission will submit a report to the European Parliament and the Council on the feasibility and possible benefits of introducing further common rules on the confiscation and freezing of property.
Last updated: 27.08.2014



Summary 52:
Fishing for bluefin tuna: EU rules for the conservation of Atlantic Tunas (until 2021) (Regulation (EU) 2021/2021)
Fishing to conserve bluefin tunas: UN Convention
SUMMARY OF:
Implementing Regulation (EC) No 640/2010 — EU rules on fishing for certain stocks of highly migratory fish
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It lays down rules for fishing to conserve the stocks of Atlantic tunas (‘bluefin tuna’).
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to all fishing vessels and traps fishing actively for Atlantic bluefin fish.
It does not apply to:
fishing for certain species of fish (e.g. sharks, skates, porbeagle, swordfish);
catch of incidental catches of fish weighing between 8 and 30 kg or with a fork length between 75 and 115 cm;
targeted incidental catches (i.e. fish caught by a fishing vessel or a trawler) of less than 5% of the total number of fish caught in the Atlantic.
The EU is party to the International Convention for the Conservation of Tropical Tunas, which aims to ensure the long-term conservation of the Atlantic tuna population and the sustainable management of its stocks.
EU countries are required to ensure that:
all fishing vessels are registered and registered in the EU;
the number of fishing vessels registered in each EU country is limited to a maximum of 10;
fisheries are registered in all EU countries;
there is no more than one fishing vessel registered in an EU country per fishing area.
Fisheries in the regulation are subject to the same rules as those laid down in the ICCAT Convention.
Each EU country must designate one or more flag countries to carry out the following tasks:
monitoring the fishing activities;
ensuring compliance with the regulation;
keeping a logbook of all fishing activities, including the date, time and positions, the quantities of fish taken on board, and the fishing vessel, farm or trap name he/she is operating in association with.
Monitoring the monitoring of fishing activities
Vessels and trawlers must keep a register of all the information they collect during their fishing activities. The register must contain the following information:
the name and registration of the vessel/trapper;
a description of the species and the species of tuna caught;
details of the number and type of fish transferred.
If a vessel/trap is found to be in breach of the regulation, it must inform the EU country in which it is registered and inform the other EU countries of the reasons for the non-compliance and the measures to be taken.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
The implementing regulation has applied since 1 January 2011.
BACKGROUND
   
 
For more information, see:
‘Tuna conservation’ on the European Commission’s website.
* KEY TERMS
* Fishing vessel: any vessel or trap used to capture, process or transfer fish. The term ‘fishing vessel’ is used to refer to any fishing vessel and/or trap used for the purpose of fishing for fish other than tuna, such as swordfish.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Commission Implementing Regulation(EU) 2018/2161 of 11 December 2018 laying down rules on the application of the Union rules relating to fishing to the conservation and management of certain stocks (Codification Regulation) of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 347, 12.12.2018, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 2161/2018 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
  (1)
Regulation of the General Assembly of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and the Protocol on the International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES Convention) (Codified version) (Official Journal C 202, 7.6.2016, pp.).
last update 14.01.2021



Summary 53:
Shipbuilding Agreement — injurious pricing
Shipbuilding Association — injuriously priced vessels
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) 2016/1036 on injurying pricing in the field of shipbuilding
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It codifies and repeals Regulation (EC) No 182/2011/EEC — the Shipbuilding Agreement between the EU and the European Free Trade Association (EFTA).
It aims to ensure that the EU can take action against any shipbuilder whose sale at less than normal value causes injury to the EU industry.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to any vessel built by a shipbuilder in the EU.
It does not apply to vessels built in non-EU countries.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
It entered into force on 1 July 2016.
BACKGROUND
The EU and EFTA have an agreement on shipbuilding.
The agreement is based on the principle of equal treatment of all parties.
For more information, see:
‘Injunurious pricing’ on the European Commission’s website.
* KEY TERMS
* Injunctive pricing: the sale of a vessel for sale at a price which is below the market value of the vessel.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2017/1037 of 25 June 2017 on injurious price fixing in respect of vessels built under the framework of the EU-EFTA (codified version) (OJ L 347, 7.8.1.2017, pp.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
Council Decision (CFSP) 2015/856/CFSPRights and obligations of the European Union in relation to shipbuilding and related services (Codified version).
Decision (EU), Euratom 2015/884/Euratom of 25 May 2015 on the signing, on behalf of the Union, and provisional application of the Agreement on Shipbuilding and Related Services between the Union and the EU Member States (Codification) (Official Journal C 202, 29.6.2015, pp.).
last update 04.11.2016



Summary 54:
Cableway safety: EU declaration of conformity and certification of cableway safety components (until 31 December 2020)
CABLEWAY safety: CE conformity and certificate of conformity
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 1025/2012 on the declaration of CE conformity of subsystems and safety components for cableway installations
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to ensure that the EU’s single market for the carriage of goods and services by means of cableways complies with the essential safety requirements set out in Regulation (EC) No 765/2008 on the harmonisation of the laws of the Member States relating to the design, construction and operation of the European Union (EU).
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to:
cableway installations, such as funicular railways, aerial ropeways (cable cars, gondolas, chairlifts) and drag lifts;
subsystems* and components* used in these installations;
safety components* for these installations.
It does not apply to the following subsystems or safety components:
substances used in the construction, operation and maintenance of the cableway installation;
the equipment used to operate the installation; and
the components used to maintain the installation.
Conformity assessment procedures
The manufacturer must ensure that:
the CE conformity marking is affixed to each subsystem or safety component;
a random sample is taken from each lot of the subsystem or component; and the manufacturer affixes the CE marking to each lot.
the conformity assessment procedure is carried out by a notified body designated by the competent national authority.
The notified body carries out a conformity assessment of the whole or part of the sub-subsystem or component and verifies that it meets the essential requirements of the regulation.
If the notified body considers that a subsystem/safety component does not comply with the regulation, it carries out an independent conformity assessment and informs the manufacturer and the competent authority of the EU country in which it is located.
Importers and importers must check that the conformity assessment has been carried out correctly and inform the manufacturer of the results of the assessment.
EU market surveillance and control
The European Commission is responsible for market surveillance, control and monitoring of the market for these components and subsystems. It is also responsible for:
monitoring the safety and conformity of these components on the EU market;
assessing the conformity of sub-systems/safety components;
checking that the manufacturer has carried out conformity assessments correctly and that the relevant national authority has taken all the necessary corrective measures.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
The Regulation has applied since 1 January 2013.
BACKGROUND
   
Cableways are mainly lift systems used in urban areas, and include:
railways, including cable cars and gondola systems;
trams, trams and coaches;
levies, including escalators and escalators;
bicyclists;
motorways and cableways used in rural areas.
For more information, see:
Safety and health on the European Commission's website.
KEY TERMS
* Cableway installation: any part of a cableway, including the equipment used in its construction, maintenance and operation.
* Subsystem: any subsystem, safety component or other part of an installation which is intended to be installed on the cable system.
ACT
Council Regulation (EU), Euratom, Euratom and the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2012 on the notification of conformity, conformity assessment, conformity control and certification procedures for subsystems, safety components and safety systems intended for use on the Union market (Codified version) (OJ L 347, 12.12.2012, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (Euratom) No 1070/2012 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED ACTS
 
Regulations (EC, EFTA and EFTA) No 596/2014 and (EU, Eur) No 1269/2014 of the General Assembly and the Council establishing a European Union Agency for Safety and Health at Work (see summary) and repealing Council Directive 2000/9/EC (Official Journal L 287, 29.11.2014).
Directive 2014/40/EU of the United Kingdom Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions of 26 October 2014 on the introduction of measures to encourage improvements in the safety of persons and property in the transport sector and repealing Directive 2000 /9/EEC (OJC L 347 of 27.10.2014, p. 1)
See consolidated version.
last update 04.01.2020



Summary 55:
Accessibility of products and services in the field of passenger transport
Assessment of the accessibility requirements for passenger transport — European Union legislation
SUMMARY OF:
Directive 2014/36/EU on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the accessibility of passengers’ access to passenger transport services
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DIRECTIVE?
It aims to ensure that passengers travelling by public transport in the European Union (EU) have access to a wide range of transport services, irrespective of their physical, mental or sensory abilities.
It also aims to improve the availability of accessible products on the internal market.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The directive applies to:
passenger transport services;
electronic ticketing services, electronic tickets and interactive self-service terminals;
services provided by operators of public transport services or on their behalf;
mobile device-based services, including mobile applications developed or made available by operators;
information on accessibility;
accessibility of websites, mobile devices and mobile applications.
The legislation does not apply to the carriage of passengers by road, rail, air, sea, inland waterways or inland waterways.
Requirements
Products and services covered by the directive must comply with the following requirements:
the accessibility of the product or service;
the provision of accessible information and of information on accessibility to passengers;
a minimum level of accessibility to the information provided by the operator of the passenger transport service.
These requirements are set out in Annexes I and II to the directive.
EU countries must ensure that:
all products, services and websites covered by this directive are available to all EU citizens, regardless of their ability to see, hear, see or use them;
users of the service are able to make use of the information and information provided;
transit services are accessible to all users;
service providers are obliged to provide information on the accessibility and accessibility of information to passengers.
In addition, EU countries are required to take the necessary measures to ensure the safety and security of persons with disabilities.
Application of the directive
The European Commission is assisted by a committee composed of representatives of EU countries and chaired by the European Parliament and the Council of the European Economic and Social Committee.
Amendments to Directive 2014/35/EU countries
The Commission has adopted a number of amendments to the original directive. These have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
Regulation (EC) No 765/2008 amends Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1025/2012 on the European Commission’s powers to adopt delegated acts.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS DIRECTIVE APPLY?
The date of entry into force has not yet been determined.
BACKGROUND
The accessibility directive is one of a series of measures designed to improve accessibility in the EU. It is part of a package of measures to modernise EU law in the area of transport.
For more information, see:
Passenger transport and accessibility (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Accessibility: the ability of people with disabilities to use the means of transport, such as a wheelchair or a mobility device, and to communicate with others.
* Passenger transport services: services provided by an operator of a public transport service or on behalf of an operator.
MAIN DOCUMENT
 
     
Directives 2014/37/EU of the EU and of the Council and of 11 March 2014 on the assessment of the requirements relating to persons’ accessibility and repealing Council Directive 87/102/EEC (OJ L 133, 22.4.2014, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Directive (EU, Euram) 2014/38/EU have been adopted. This is a consolidated version.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
 			
   	 	
Directions 2014/33/EU and 2014/34/EU (O J L 347, 29.11.2014)
See consolidated versions.
last update 04.01.2016



Summary 56:
Supply chain due diligence: traceability of minerals and metals imported into the EU (Regulation (EU) 2015/856)
Supply Chain due diligence : traceability and traceability in the supply chain
SUMMARY OF:
Implementing Regulation (EC) No 596/2014 — traceability requirements for the import and export of minerals, metals and related products from conflict-affected and high-risk areas
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to ensure that the EU’s supply chain* is traceable when it comes to the supply of minerals* and metals to the EU market.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to:
mineral and metals* imported into or exported from non-EU countries;
precious metals* and precious metals* which are not listed in Annex I to the regulation.
It does not apply in situations where the EU importers’ annual import volumes of each mineral or metal concerned are below the volume thresholds set out in the annexes to this regulation (i.e. the volume does not exceed a certain threshold).
Requirements
EU importers must ensure that:
the minerals or metals they import are traceable and traceable;
they carry out due diligence* on the origin of the minerals and minerals they import;
the information they provide to the European Commission on their supply chain is recorded in a publicly accessible register.
The Commission is assisted by a committee composed of representatives of EU countries and chaired by the European Economic and Social Affairs Committee (EASAC).
Imporporporters and importers are required to carry out audits of their own supply chain to verify that they comply with the regulation and that they have carried out their own due diligence.
Suppliers must also carry out independent third-party audits to check that they are carrying out their due diligence correctly.
EU countries may require that importers carry out the audits themselves or through an independent third party, subject to the conditions laid down in this regulation, but only if they are carried out by an EU country or by a third party authorised by the Commission.
Recognition of due diligence schemes
The European Commission is responsible for recognising and assessing the validity of supply chain due-diligence schemes.
If the Commission considers that a scheme meets the requirements of the regulation, it may adopt a decision to recognise the scheme.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
Regulation(EC) 2016/852 has applied since 1 July 2016.
BACKGROUND
   
The EU has adopted a number of measures to combat conflict and illegal exploitation of minerals.
For more information, see:
‘Responsible sourcing of minerals’ on the Commission's website.
MAIN DOCUMENT
 
Commission Implementing Regulation(EU) No 529/2014 of 5 March 2014 laying down traceability measures for the supply and export regulation (Regulating (EC, Euratom) No 1599/2014) (OJ L 183, 7.7.2014, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EU, Euram) No 555/2014 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
  (1) The Commission adopts Regulation (Euram) 2017/849 of 11 March 2017 laying down the rules and general principles concerning the implementation of Regulation (CFSP) No 550/2014 on traceability (Regulations (EC), (EC and Euratom).
See consolidated version.
Commission Decision (EU), Euram 2017/939 of 11 May 2017 on the implementation by the Member States of the implementing regulation (EC (2014/851/EU) on the traceability regulation (Recast) (Official Journal C 202, 11.6.2017, pp 1-2)
last update 14.01.2019



Summary 57:
Rules on origin of goods: customs status, placing goods under a customs procedure and releasing them for free circulation (Recast of Regulation (EC) No 596/63)
Rules on Origin of goods (Recasting Regulation (EU) No 696/64)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 555/63 — general rules on the customs status and placing of goods under the customs procedure
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It lays down the general customs status* and placing-goods* rules applicable to the import, export and release of goods within the customs territory of the European Union (EU).
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to goods originating in:
the EU;
non-EU countries;
the territories of the United Kingdom Sovereign Base Areas of Akrotiri and Dhekelia as defined in the Treaty concerning the Establishment of the Republic of Cyprus, signed in Nicosia on 16 August 1960 (United Kingdom Treaty Series No 4 (1961) Cmnd. 8679);
CYPRUS.
It does not apply to the territory of Cyprus or to the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
Customs status
The customs status of goods is determined by the customs authorities of the EU country of origin.
The rules apply to goods that are:
free circulation;
temporary admission; and
free movement;
storage;
specific use;
release for export.
Free circulation
The following the conclusion of a customs declaration, the declaration is valid for a maximum period of 30 days. It may be revoked if no later than 30 days after the end of the 30-day period of validity of the declaration or if it is no longer justified.
Released for export or free movement
The declaration may be issued by the holder of a valid customs declaration. It must be valid for 30 days from the date on which it is lodged. The declaration must contain certain information, such as the name and address of the holder, the date of entry into the EU and the country of destination of the goods, and the date for which the goods are released for export, as well as a list of the countries for which they are declared for export (e.g. Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Greece, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Malta, Poland, Romania, Serbia, Slovenia, Slovakia, Slovenia and Turkey).
Free movement of goods
The declarations are valid for up to 90 days after they are issued. They may be invalidated within 30 days of the expiry of the 90-day validity period, or within 200 days if they are not valid for more than 90 days.
Expiry of customs status
A customs declaration is invalidated if it has not been issued within 90 days of its expiry, or if the declaration has been issued by a third person instead of the debtor. It is also invalid if the debtor:
has not paid the customs debt;
is unable to pay the debt within 30 consecutive days of receiving the declaration; or
is not able to repay the debt in full or in part.
If the declaration does not comply with the above conditions, it is invalid if:
it is issued by an authorised economic operator for security and safety that is entitled to facilitate the holder’s activities;
it has been published in the Official Journal of the International Monetary Fund; or or
the declaration has not yet been issued.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 January 1964 and had to become law in the EU countries by 1 January 1966.
BACKGROUND
 
For more information, see:
‘Originating goods’ on the European Commission's website.
KEY TERMS
* Customs status: the status in which goods are considered to be ‘customs’.
* Free circulation: the period of time during which goods can be moved from one point to another within the EU without any change in their customs status.
MAIN DOCUMENT
  i.e. the entry into force of the regulation.
  (OJ L 347, 1.12.1963, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (Euratom) no 555/67 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
  I.
Report from the Commission to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions on the application of the Customs Status Regulation and its subsequent amendments (COM(2014) 699 final, 14.11.2014)
Report on the implementation by the Commission of the Regulation on the establishment of the Community Customs Status and the placing under a Customs Procurement, Verification, Release and Disposal Rules (EU-CUSTOMS PROC



Summary 58:
EU application procedure to combat counterfeiting of intellectual property rights (IPR) and counterfeiting in the internal market (until 31 December 2020)
EU application process to combat counterfeit intellectual property (IP)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 596/97 — application procedure for the protection of intellectual Property Rights (IPRs)
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
   
 
It aims to protect intellectual property* rights (i.e. the intellectual property of creators, users or groups of producers) against counterfeiting.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to all goods imported into the European Union (EU) from non-EU countries.
It does not apply to goods originating in the EU.
The application procedure
An application is submitted to the competent customs department of the EU country of destination of origin for the import of goods suspected of infringing an intellectual property right. The applicant must provide information on:
the nature and nature of the alleged infringements;
the goods concerned;
a description and/or coding of the goods;
details on movements of containers;
information on movements and movements of goods.
If an application is refused, the customs department may request the applicant to supply the missing information within 10 working days of receiving the request. If the information is incomplete, the applicant must inform the customs authorities of the reason for the refusal and provide them with a copy of the application.
A decision is then made on the basis of the information provided by the applicant and the reasons for its refusal.
Importers may refuse to accept an application if they consider that the applicant has not provided all the information requested or that is necessary for the purpose of the decision.
EU applications may be refused if the applicant:
does not provide all the necessary information;
is unable to provide the requested information within the time limit set out in the regulation;
has not provided sufficient information to justify the refusal of an application; or
is incomplete or does not contain the information required for the decision to be made.
An applicant may not provide the goods concerned if the goods are:
illegal;
imported into the EU from another EU country;
obtained illegally;
have been obtained by fraud or other illegal means;
originated in a country other than the EU;
are not protected by EU law;
may not be used for commercial purposes;
do not comply with the conditions laid down in EU law.
In addition, an application may not be refused on the grounds that:
it is incomplete;
it has not been submitted in a language easily understood by the competent national customs department;
in the absence of the required information, it is impossible to determine whether the applicant is a national or a national of an EU country.
Where the customs authority considers that an application has been refused, it may decide to refuse the application or to issue a non-renewable decision. It may also refuse to grant an application on grounds of public policy, public security or public health or if it is contrary to public policy or public security.
Applications may be rejected if they are incomplete or if they do not contain information necessary for its proper functioning.
Application procedure
The competent customs authorities may refuse an application for the following reasons:
they consider the applicant’s information to be incomplete or to be of insufficient value;
they believe that the information has been provided in a manner that is likely to prejudice the legitimate interests of the applicant or to cause prejudice to the interests of a third party;
an application is incomplete or incomplete because the applicant does not provide information necessary to the proper functioning of the procedure.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
It has applied since 15 December 1997 and had to become law in the Member States by 15 December 1998.
BACKGROUND
The European Commission has adopted a number of implementing acts in the context of the implementation of this regulation.
For more information, see:
‘Counterfeiting’ on the European Commission's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Counterfeiting: the practice of counterfeiting intellectual property by means of the sale of goods with the intention of infringing the rights of the creator or of the users of those rights.
ACT
Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 529/97 of 15 November 1997 laying down a procedure for applying for protection of Intellectual Property Rights in the Internal Market (OJ L 347, 15.12.1997, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EEC) no 529/1997 have been incorporated in the basic text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 14.01.2020



Summary 59:
Customs programme: strengthening cooperation between EU countries’ customs and customs control authorities (2017-2021)
Customs Programme: strengthening the cooperation between the EU’s customs authorities
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) 2019/849 — the Customs programme
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
   
 
It establishes a new programme to strengthen cooperation between customs authorities in the European Union (EU).
KEY POINTS
The aim of this regulation is to establish a common framework for cooperation in the field of customs.
It aims to improve the coordination between the customs authorities of the EU countries in order to:
increase the effectiveness and efficiency of customs cooperation;
promote the exchange of information and best practice;
improve the efficiency and effectiveness of customs procedures; and
improve cooperation in all aspects of customs administration.
The regulation sets out the tasks and responsibilities of the Commission, which is responsible for the implementation of the programme.
Implementation
The programme is implemented by means of work programmes. The Commission adopts implementing acts to establish multiannual work programmes, which are aligned with the Financial Regulation on the European Stability Mechanism (see summary).
The work programmes are to be evaluated on the basis of information collected in accordance with specific monitoring requirements, while avoiding an administrative burden, in particular on EU countries, and overregulation.
Each year, the work programmes consist of:
exchange of information between the Commission and EU countries on customs matters;
exchanges of experience and best practices;
expenditure of resources;
training of officials;
visits and exchanges of staff;
working visits to EU countries to acquire or increase their expertise or knowledge in customs matters.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
The Customs programme entered into force on 1 January 2021.
BACKGROUND
The customs programme is one of the main pillars of the new EU strategy to modernise and modernise the internal market, which aims to reduce administrative burdens and improve the efficiency of cross-border trade.
For more information, see:
‘The EU Customs Programme’ on the Commission's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Customs programme: a programme designed to improve cooperation between national customs authorities. It aims to increase the effectiveness, efficiency and efficiency in customs cooperation by:
developing customs cooperation with non-EU countries;
strengthening customs cooperation between countries in the area of customs control;
improving cooperation in customs administration;
reducing administrative burdens;
enhancing cooperation in border management;
encouraging the exchange and sharing of information;
increasing cooperation in areas such as:
trade facilitation;
customs information exchange;
the exchange of best practice in customs control equipment;
facilitating trade in goods and services;
implementing measures to combat fraud.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 849/2019
1.1.2021
-
OJ L 183 of 31.7.2019
Amending act(s)
Entry in force
Date of entry into force
Final date for implementation in the member States
Regulations (EU), Euratom and the European Economic Area
Decision (EC) No 596/2014/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2014 on the establishment of a European Union Customs Cooperation Fund and repealing Regulation (Euratom), and Regulation (EC), No 652/2004/EC of the General Assembly and Council of 16 December 2004 on the Common Customs Code (Official Journal L 347 of 30.12.2014).
last update 04.01.2020



Summary 60:
Equal opportunities and access to the labour market, fair working conditions and social protection: the European Pillar 2021-2027
Equitable opportunities and equal working conditions: the social dimension Social Rights
SUMMARY OF:
Implementing Regulation (EU) 2021/1060 — implementing the Pillar 2021/2027 — the European Investment Bank and the European Social Fund
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes the framework for the implementation of the EU’s 2020–2027 social investment strategy (Pillar 2021/2020).
It sets out the key principles for the Pillar, which are based on equal opportunities, access to employment and equal opportunities for all, and fair working and equal protection for all.
KEY POINTS
The Pillar is based on three pillars:
equal opportunities: equal opportunities to participate in society and work, irrespective of sex, sexual orientation, age, religion or belief, racial or ethnic origin, gender, disability or chronic diseases, and children and elderly people;
fair working conditions;
social protection and inclusion: the protection of the most disadvantaged people, regardless of their sex, racial, ethnic or national origin, and irrespective of their age, gender or disability, and regardless of the level of education or training.
The EaSI consists of three strands:
1.
Equal Opportunities and Access to Employment and Social Inclusion (EaSI): the first strand is the main instrument of the Pillar. It aims to support the European investment bank (ESIB) to achieve the objectives of the Ea specific strand (e.
2.
Fair Working Conditions: the second strand aims to improve the quality of employment and working conditions for all workers and to improve their safety and health;
3.
Inclusion: the third strand aims at improving the social inclusion of disadvantaged people.
4.
Social Protection and Inclusion strand: the ESF+ strand under shared management (ESF+) is the specific strand for the Social inclusion policy area, which aims to promote social inclusion by:
promoting the socio-economic integration of non-EU nationals and minorities (including marginalised communities, such as Roma people, people with disabilities and people with chronic diseases);
improving the social protection for vulnerable groups (children, elderly people, children and vulnerable people);
encouraging the participation of women and men in decision-making;
promote the participation and participation of social partners;
providing financial support to territorial and local development strategies in order to implement the Pillar;
contributing to the creation of a European Solidarity Corps (ESC).
5.
Cooperation between the ESI and other EU instruments
The ESF and other instruments are co-financed by the EIB, the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) and the Cohesion Fund (CIFRD).
The European Commission is responsible for the coordination of these instruments.
FROM WHEN DOES THE LEGULATION APPLY?
Regulation (EC) No 1060/2021 has applied since 1 July 2021.
BACKGROUND
   
The 2020–2020 Pillar is one of the three pillars of the European Union's social investment programme. The other two pillars are the EU4Health (‘EU4Health’ and the ‘EU5’ programmes.
For more information, see:
‘The European investment strategy for social inclusion’ on the European Commission's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Equal opportunities: the conditions under which an individual or a group of individuals or groups can participate in the economic and social life of a society, including equal opportunities and the right to work and to be treated with respect to equal treatment under the law.
MAIN DOCUMENT
  Ебранска гарака (OJ L 183, 1.7.2021, pp. 1-2)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1160/2020 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
 
 			
Commission Delegated Regulation (Euratom) 2019/856 of 20 May 2019 laying down the general principles and guidelines of the Social Investment Strategy for the period 2021–2028 and amending Regulations (EEC, EFRD) No 1/2019, (EU), (EU, EFTR) No 2/2020 and (EU/EU) No 3/2020 of the Council and repealing Regulations (EC and EFTR), (ECB) No 596/2013, (EC), (EURO) No 696/2014 and (ECE) No 752/2014 of the General Assembly and Council and Council Decision No 552/2013/EC of 25 April 2019 on the establishment of



Summary 61:
European Voluntary Service (Evoluntary Service) 2020-2024 — EU-wide programme for volunteering
European Volunteer Service (EU-2020) — European Volunteer Service
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 1288/2013 on the European Voluntary service
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to promote volunteering among young people in the European Union (EU).
It sets out the rules and objectives of the European Volunteering Programme (VSP) and the conditions for participation in the programme.
KEY POINTS
Participation
The VSP is open to young people aged 18 and over in the EU and in non-EU countries and territories. It aims to increase the number of volunteering opportunities for young people, especially in the fields of health, education and social inclusion.
The programme is funded by the European Social Fund (ESF), the EU’s budget for the period 2020-24.
It supports the following activities:
volunteering;
participation in solidarity activities;
solidarity projects;
networking activities for individuals and organisations participating in this strand;
quality and support measures.
EU countries may only participate in the VSP in its entirety and provided that they fulfil all the obligations which this regulation imposes on EU countries.
Eligibility for participation
The participation of young people is based on the following criteria:
they must be at least 18 years old;
they are not obliged to work in a public sector or in a private sector;
their participation must not be more than 6 months per year;
the duration of the volunteering must not exceed 6 months.
they do not have to take place in an EU country other than the one in which they are resident;
a minimum age of 18 is not required for volunteering in the country in which the volunteering is taking place;
an EU country may not restrict participation to volunteers under 18 years of age.
Organisations participating in the ESP are eligible for funding subject to certain conditions, including:
the number of volunteers and the duration of their participation; and
the quality of the projects and the support measures they undertake.
VSPs are open to all EU countries and non-governmental organisations (NGOs).
The ESPPs may not take part in the following actions:
organisations, individuals and entities established in EU countries or territories that are not covered by this regulation:
non-profit-making organisations;
public sector bodies;
agriculture, forestry, fisheries, aquaculture and fisheries;
social partners;
education and training;
health and long-term care;
research and development;
transnational organisations.
In addition, the programme supports the participation of:
young people in volunteering;
voluntary humanitarian aid corps (e.g. volunteers in disaster management);
young volunteers in the field of disaster management;
children and young people participating in volunteering in humanitarian aid;
people and organisations involved in the development and capacity-building of volunteers;
coaches, mentors and experts.
FROM WHEN DOES THE REGUMENT APPLY?
    Еганска гранка  гландара барка, годарна какодна  ълака and гаккабаларскога данна (OJ L 347, 28.12.2013, pp. 1-8)
BACKGROUND
The European Volunteervest Programme (EVP) is one of the main instruments of the EU's social cohesion policy. It is designed to encourage young people to give back to society by encouraging them to participate in volunteering. Volunteering is seen as a way of showing solidarity with one another in the face of current and future societal challenges, which young Europeans are willing to help address by expressing their solidarity in practice.
For more information, see:
European Volunteering (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Volunteer: any person, organisation or body that is actively involved in volunteering, whether or not it is a public or private sector body.
* Humanitarian Aid Corps: a group of volunteers working together for the benefit of the general public or the local community. They provide volunteers with advice, guidance and assistance in the context of a crisis or humanitarian crisis.
MAIN DOCUMENT
  Баснъканта заншка:
Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2018/1288 of 26 October 2018 on the participation and participation of youth in volunteering under the European Volunteers Service and repealing Council Decision 2013/755/EU and Council Regulation (EC) No 684/2013 (Official Journal L 165, 29.10.2018



Summary 62:
European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGAF)
European globalisation adjustment fund (EGA)
SUMMARY OF:
Implementing Regulation (EU) 2019/1796 on the European Globalisation Fund (2014-2020)
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets up an EU-wide mechanism to provide financial support to beneficiaries of the global adjustment fund for the period 2014-2020.
KEY POINTS
The EGF is the main instrument of the EU’s common foreign and security policy (TFSP) and is funded by the European Investment Bank (EIB) and the European Social Fund (ESF).
Eligible beneficiaries
Beneficiaries of the EGF are companies and individuals in the EU and non-EU countries that have been affected by the global financial and economic crisis (GFC) and/or by the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic.
The European Commission is responsible for managing and monitoring the programme and for the benefit of the beneficiaries.
It is also responsible for monitoring the implementation of the programme.
Beneficiary criteria
The beneficiaries of EGF assistance are companies, individuals and other entities that are affected by:
the GFC or the effects of the GFC;
the EU countries’ gross domestic product (GDP) as a whole; or
the countries of the European Economic Area (EEA); or
any other EU country that is not a member of the EFTA.
Specific eligibility criteria are set out in the implementing act (Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 883 (see summary), which sets out the categories of beneficiaries and the eligibility criteria for each category of beneficiary.
In addition, the Commission may grant EGF co-financing to companies or individuals that are:
operating in an EU country or in an EEA country;
employed or self-employed;
exposed to an economic or social crisis;
failing to meet their employment or social needs;
experienced in a particular sector;
in the context of an economic crisis; or experiencing an economic downturn;
preventing, limiting or limiting the use of public procurement;
implementing measures to improve the quality of life of workers and their families;
contributing to the creation of jobs that require lower qualifications;
supporting the development of a knowledge-based economy;
protecting the environment;
encouraging innovation and creativity;
promoting the creation and diversification of the labour market;
ensuring the protection of intellectual property rights;
providing financial support for research, development and innovation;
developing innovative solutions to address social and economic challenges;
raising awareness of the needs of vulnerable groups;
exchanging information and best practice;
creating and disseminating information to the general public;
facilitating the exchange of best practice in the field of employment and social policy;
establishing a European information society;
assessing the need for early intervention;
monitoring and evaluating the results obtained;
sharing best practice and best practices;
cooperating with other EU programmes and bodies;
taking the necessary measures to ensure the proper application of the rules and procedures.
FROM WHEN DOES THE IMPLEMENTATION APPLY?
Regulation(EU) 2018/852 has applied since 1 January 2019.
Amending Regulation (EC) No 1299/2014 has applied from 1 January 2020.
BACKGROUND
The GFC is one of the main instruments of the TFEU, the European Union's main instrument for combating poverty, inequality and discrimination.
For more information, see:
‘The European Investment Fund’ (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Global adjustment fund: the European investment fund (EGF).
* GFC: the EU's common financial instrument.
ACT
Commission implementing act of 24 October 2019 laying down implementing acts for the European General Fund (2018/856/EU and 2020/2021).
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Regulations (EU).
-
Entry in force
Official journal
Decision 2014/854/EU
1.1.2019
1 January 2020
1 February 2020
OJ L 165 of 1.2.2020
RELATED ACTS
Commission Implementing act (EU), Euratom No 882/2014 of 12 December 2014 laying down the general principles and procedures for the application by the Commission of implementing acts relating to the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) (OJ C 202 of 14.12.2014, pp. 1-2)
Commission Decision (EU); Euratom Implementing Act (EU): No 884/2014 laying down general principles, procedures and procedures relating to cooperation between the Commission and the Member State concerned in the implementation and evaluation of the common European territorial and cohesion policy



Summary 63:
Registration of permanent representations in the European Union’s register of permanent representatives
Registration of Permanent Representations
SUMMARY OF:
Agreement between the EU and the European Economic and Social Committee on the establishment of a register of EU permanent representations
Decision (EU) 2017/852 — conclusion of the Agreement between the European ESI and the Council of the European Atomic Energy Community on the registration of permanent representation in the register of the permanent representatives of the Member States
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE AGREEMENT AND THE DECISION?
The agreement aims to ensure that permanent representations (representatives of EU countries in the EU institutions) are registered in a publicly accessible register.
The decision concludes the agreement on behalf of the EU.
KEY POINTS
Registration
The register is open to all EU countries’ permanent representations. It allows them to participate in the exchange of information on EU policies, laws, regulations, programmes, policies and programmes.
Eligibility
Persons wishing to become a permanent representative of an EU institution are eligible for registration if they meet the following criteria:
they are EU nationals;
they have a valid residence permit;
their permanent representation is valid for a period of 5 years;
the EU institution is based in an EU country.
Applicants for registration must provide the following information:
their name, nationality, date of birth, place of birth and place of residence;
a description of the activities they wish to engage in;
an application form;
documents relating to their permanent representation.
If an applicant is unable to provide all of these information, the applicant must provide a copy of the application form.
An applicant may be refused entry into the register if they do not fulfil the following a number of conditions, including the following:
the applicant is not a national of a non-EU country,
the information they provide is not sufficient for the register to be established;
there is a risk that the applicant will be declared ineligible if they fail to comply with the code of conduct (‘non-observance’);
the registrant has not complied with the requirements of the register;
in the light of information that the registrant may be ineligible, the register may be closed down.
Registration is voluntary.
Non-EU countries may decide to make certain activities targeting their permanent representations conditional upon registration, or of any complementary transparency measures that they take.
A management board is set up to implement the agreement. It is composed of representatives of all EU institutions and is chaired by a Commission representative.
It is responsible for:
coordinating the coordinated approach with regard to the activities covered by the agreement;
setting out those covered activities that are conditional upon the registration;
monitoring the implementation of the agreement and taking appropriate measures to ensure its proper application;
ensuring that the agreement is respected;
examining the application process and the eligibility of applicants;
taking appropriate action in the event of non-fulfilment of its obligations.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
The Agreement entered into force on 1 January 2018.
BACKGROUND
   
 
For more information, see:
‘Registering Permanent Representants’ on the European Commission's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Permanent representative: a person who holds a permanent representation of one or more EU institutions in a Member State and has the right to express his/her views on EU policy decisions.
ACT
Council Decision 2017/884/EU of 11 December 2017 on the conclusion of an Agreement between The European Economic Social Committee (ESI) and the Union of the Eastern Mediterranean and its Member States on the Registration of Permanent Representatives in the Register of the Permanent Representatives of the Union (OJ L 157, 12.12.2017, pp. 1-8)
RELATED ACTS
 			
  The Council Decision (EU, Euratom) 2017 /852 of 11 March 2017 on a Protocol to the Agreement on the Agreement to be concluded on the basis of the Accession of the Community to the List of Permanent Representative Institutions in the Registry of the Common Market and of the Official Journal of the World Trade Organization (COM(2017) 852 final, 1.4.2017)
last update 14.11.2017



Summary 64:
Budgetary agreement between the EU institutions and the Commission on the management of the EU’s financial resources (MFF 2021-2027)
Budgetarian agreement between EU institutions, the Commission and the European Parliament and the Economic and Social Committee
SUMMARY OF:
Agreement on budgetary discipline between the European Institutions and the Council of the European Union on the implementation of the annual budgetary procedure and cooperation between the Institutions on budgetary matters
Decision (EU) 2016/123/JHA — conclusion of the Agreement on better fiscal management between the Council and the institutions on the application of the budgetary procedure
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE AGREEMENT AND OF THE DECISION?
The agreement aims to improve the functioning of budgetary discipline, to improve cooperation and to ensure sound financial management.
The decision adopts the agreement on behalf of the Union.
KEY POINTS
The EU institutions are committed to sincere and transparent cooperation and the work towards the introduction of new own resources over the period of the multiannual financial framework for the years 2021 to 2027.
Under the agreement, the institutions undertake to:
implement budgetary discipline;
cooperate in order to ensure the sound management of EU finances;
ensure that the EU budget is implemented according to the principles set out in the financial regulation (the Financial Regulation);
monitor the financial position of the institutions;
monitor and monitor the financial situation of the Member States;
promote transparency and the exchange of information between the institutions.
Cooperation
The institutions are also committed to ensuring that:
the budgetary procedures are transparent;
the budget is adopted by the institutions in line with the financial rules laid down in the Financial Regulation;
a common set of documents is made available to the public;
budgetary procedures are followed;
budgetary procedure before the conciliation procedure is established;
there is an independent audit of the budget and the annual legislative work programme;
regular meetings of the Joint Committee on Budgetary and Fiscal Affairs are held at least once a year.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS AGREAGEMENT APPLY?
It has applied since 1 January 2016.
BACKGROUND
   
The European Commission is responsible for the management and implementation of EU budgets.
For more information, see:
‘Better fiscal management’ on the European Commission's website.
MAIN DOCUMENTS
Council Agreement of 20 December 2016 on Better Fiscal Management (OJ L 123, 1.1.2016, pp. 1-5)
Council Decision of 20 November 2016 on the conclusion of an Agreement of the Representatives of the Governments and of the Administrations of the Federative States, meeting within the meaning of Article 314(2) TFEU of the Treaty on European Union and on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to the exercise of the powers conferred on the Commission by the Treaties (Official Journal L 123 of 20.12.2016).
Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2020/2093 of 17 December 2020 laying down the framework of the financial year 2021–2027 (see summary) and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1182/71 of 3 June 1971 determining the rules applicable to periods, dates and time limits for the establishment of the own resources and establishing the European Fund for Strategic Investments (EFSI).
Successive amendments to the agreement have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
Council decision (EU/2013/849) of 27 June 2013 on the signing, on behalf the European Council, and provisional application by the Commission of an agreement on better budgetary management (OJC L 140, 28.6.2013, pp 1-2)
See consolidated version.
last update 04.01.2017



Summary 65:
Economic recovery in the aftermath of COVID-19: EU financial instruments and mechanisms (Regulation (EU) 2021/2023)
Economic recovery within the EU: EU funding mechanisms and mechanisms
SUMMARY OF:
Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2019/852 — economic recovery in response to COVID‐19
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
   
 
It sets out how the European Union (EU), the European Commission and the European Central Bank (ECB) will support the economic recovery of the Member States affected by the COVID‑19 crisis in order to ensure a sustainable and resilient recovery throughout the EU.
KEY POINTS
The COVID–19 crisis has caused significant disturbances to economic activity and has had a significant impact on employment, social conditions, poverty and inequalities. It has led to a sharp decline in gross domestic product (GDP) and the unemployment rate.
The measures taken by the EU and the ECB to cope with the impact of the crisis have resulted in a significant deterioration in the economic situation of the EU Member States.
In response to the crisis, the EU is providing financial support to the affected Member States and the EU countries. This support is in the form of loans, grants, loans, loans and grants, and is based on the basis of a fixed annual inflation rate of 2% per year.
To ensure the sustainability and resilience of the recovery, the Commission is using the EU’s own resources (i. This is known as the ‘own resources’, which are:
the EU budget,
the European Stability and Growth Pact,
The European Stability Mechanism (ESGP),
the Structural and Investment Funds (ESIF) and
the Cohesion funds.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMISSION APPLY?
The regulation has applied since 1 January 2019.
BACKGROUND
The crisis is the result of a combination of factors:
unprecedented measures taken in response by Member States, which were beyond their control;
a lack of coordination and coordination between the EU institutions and the Commission;
the absence of a common economic policy framework.
For more information, see:
‘Economic recovery’ on the Commission's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Economic recovery: the period of time during which an economy is in a state of crisis or is experiencing a significant disturbance to its economic activity, which is reflected in a steep decline in Gross Domestic Product and in employment.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition into force
Official Journal
Regulation(EU) 2017/856
1.1.2019
-
OJ L 157 of 1.2.2017
RELATED ACTS
Council Decision 2014/335/EU of 26 May 2014 on the system of own resources of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (Euratom) No 596/2013 (OJ C 202, 7.6.2014, pp. 1-8)
last update 12.01.2019



Summary 66:
SUMMARY OF:
Implementing Regulation (EU) 2015/849 on the enforcement of budgetary surveillance in the euro area
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It lays down general rules for the effective enforcement of Regulation (EC) No 1466/97 on the application of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) on the surveillance of national economic policies.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation allows the Council to adopt specific measures which go beyond the general rules applicable to all EU countries, for the purpose of ensuring the proper functioning of the economic and monetary union.
It does not apply to:
the euro area as a whole;
the countries participating in the Stability and Growth Pact;
non-euro area countries; or
the Member States of the single currency area.
Penalties
The Council has the power to impose fines on EU countries that fail to comply with the requirements of the regulation.
Imposing a fine
The maximum amount of a fine is set by the Council and is calculated on the basis of the following criteria:
a country’s gross domestic product (GDP) in the preceding year;
its gross national income (GNI);
the amount of the deficit over the reference value; and
the percentage of GDP in the previous year.
If the Council decides to impose a fine, it must inform the European Commission of the reasons for its decision.
The Commission may, on grounds of exceptional economic circumstances or following a reasoned request by the EU country concerned addressed to the Commission within 10 days of adoption of its decision, recommend that the Council reduce or cancel the fine or cancel it.
In the case of exceptional circumstances, the Council may adopt a decision imposing a fine on the maximum amount.
Investigations
If an EU country is found guilty of an offence, the Commission is responsible for the investigation of the alleged infringements and for conducting the investigations.
Where the Commission concludes that the infringement has not been detected, it may decide to launch an investigation into the alleged infringement. The Commission must report its findings to the Council, which will then decide whether to adopt an act or not to impose the fine.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 849/2015 has applied since 1 January 2015.
BACKGROUND
The Regulation is one of a series of measures designed to ensure the effective implementation of the TFEU and the stability of the euro.
For more information, see:
Safeguarding the euro (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Fiscal surveillance: the multilateral surveillance system organised by the European System of Central Banks (ESCB).
* Excessive deficit: an excess of a government deficit over its reference value.
* Government deficit: the amount of public debt that a country has overspent or underspent.
ACT
Council Regulation (Euratom), Euratom of 14 December 2014 on the effective application of Regulation [Official Journal L 347 of 29.12.2014].
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Decision 2014/338/EU
1.1.2015
-
OJ L 347, 29.11.2014, pp. 1-2
Amending act(s)
Date of entry into force - not published in the Official Journal
Corrigendum
Entry in force - Date of expiry of the validity of the original act
Deadlines for transpose in the member States
1 January 2016
- (Official Journal C 347, 31.12-1.2016, p. 1)
RELATED ACTS
Council Decision 2014/335/EU of 11 December 2014 laying down the powers of the Council in the exercise of the powers conferred on it pursuant to Article 290 of the Treaties on the European Economic and Social Committee (TEU) (OJ C 202, 12.6.2014).
Last updated: 27.08.2014



Summary 67:
Population and housing statistics
Population and Housing statistics
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 596/2008 — population and housing data
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out the rules for the transmission of data on the European Union’s (EU) population, family, social, economic and housing characteristics to Eurostat.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to all EU countries, except Denmark, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway and Switzerland.
It covers the population and demographic, social and economic characteristics of persons, families and households, as well as on housing at a national, regional and local level.
The data are transmitted by the European Commission (Eurostat) to the European Statistical System System (ESS) and the national statistical institutes (NUTS) in each EU country.
Each EU country must transmit data on its population and on its housing population, its families, its households and its non-residential housing units to the ESS and NUTS in accordance with the rules laid down in the regulation.
EU countries must ensure that the data transmitted by Eurostat are comparable to those collected in other EU countries and that they meet the essential features of the European statistical system, i.e. they are comparable in quality, reliability and comparability.
Data sources and methodology
Eurostat is responsible for the selection of the data sources and the programme of transmission of the statistical data and the metadata.
National and regional statistics institutes must provide Eurostat with a report on the quality of the information transmitted by EU countries.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMigration and Integration statistics are transmitted?
From 1 January 2010.
REFERENCESMigration statistics
Each year, EU countries send Eurostat data on their nationals’ migration status, their families, their households, their non-member households and their housing units.
Housing statistics
From the date of entry into force of the census.
For each year, Eurostat transmits data on:
the number of inhabitants of the EU;
the total number of households and the number of non-members of households;
total number of types of housing units (conventional and non-conventional);
number of households (non-conformity);
the average age of the population;
average number of children (under 5 years old);
average age of a household (under 15 years old).
The information transmitted includes information on the following categories of persons:
persons (e.g. children under 18 years old),
children (under 18),
young people (under 16 years old) and
people (over 65 years old):
children under 18,
young women (under 65),
women (under 75),
non-married women,
women over 65,
people over 75,
non‑married women and men (over 75, unmarried men and women):
age of the average household and the average number of persons in the household;
age and sex of the household and of its members;
ages of the main family members,
relationships between household members, and
tenure status of households.
Non-derived data
Data are transmitted on the basis of the following sources:
statistical data from the national and regional data sources,
data from Eurostat,
the European Social Fund,
national and regional surveys,
other sources, such as Eurostat and the European Statistics System (ESS), and
the statistical data collected by the Commission.
Implementation
The European Commission has the power to adopt implementing acts to implement the regulation and to adopt delegated acts. It is assisted by the Statistical System Committee, which is composed of representatives of the national Statistical System Administrations and the Commission, and is assisted in this by the Committee of the Regions.
Amending Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2017/856
Regulations (EU and Euratom), (EU/2020/EC) and (EU), (Euratom) 2018/2111 have been amended to take account of the adoption of the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organised Crime (UNCTAD) and of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia (ICTY) as regards the accession of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia to the Community and the application of the Rome Statute.
BACKGROUND
The purpose of the regulation is to ensure the comparability of EU statistics with those of the non-EU countries in order to improve the quality and reliability of EU statistical data.
In addition, the regulation provides for the exchange of information between the Commission and Eurostat on the methodology, definitions and programme of data transmission.
This regulation complements Regulation (EC, EC) No 176/2008/2008 on the collection and transmission of statistical data by the Member States.
* KEY TERMS
* Population: the population of an EU country and its main family,



Summary 68:
Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament
RULESP rules of procedure
SUMMARY OF:
Decision (EU) 2019/302 — Rules of Procedure — 9th parliamentary term
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE RULES OF PROCEDURE?
It lays down the rules for the running of the Parliamentary system of procedure.
It aims to ensure the smooth functioning of the EU’s internal market and the efficient functioning of its internal institutions.
KEY POINTS
   
The rules apply to:
the running of Parliament;
the adoption of legislative acts;
legislative acts adopted by the Council and the Commission;
approval and adoption of decisions by the Standing Committee on Justice, Equality and the Equality of the Member States;
exchanges of views between the Council, the Commission and the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy.
Scope
The procedure applies to all legislative acts and decisions adopted by Parliament.
The procedures are laid down in the rules of Procedure (ROPs).
The ROPs apply to the following legislative acts:
procedures for the adoption of a legislative act (i.e. a decision to adopt a law, a regulation, an act of the Council or a decision by the Commission);
the approval of a regulation or an act adopted by a Council or the Commission on a matter of the interest of a Member State;
proceedings of a committee of inquiry;
decisions on the adoption by the Conference of Committee Chairs;
adoption of a resolution.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCELEGISLATION
The 9th Parliamentary term runs from 1 July 2019 to 31 December 2020.
BACKGROUND
The Rules of procedure apply from 1 January 2019.
For more information, see:
‘Rules of procedure’ on the European Commission's website.
MAIN DOCUMENTS
Council Decision (EU, Euratom) 2018/302 of 11 April 2018 on the rules on procedure of the ninth parliamentary term (OJ L 302, 22.11.2018, pp. 1-2)
Council Regulation (EU), Euratom, Euratopopulation of the rules governing the internal market, the equality of the Members of the Parliament, the establishment of the Standing Committees and the Committee of Justice, the Committee on Ethics and the Cooperation of the Representatives of the Governments and the Committees of the Regions.
last update 11.01.2020



Summary 69:
European Data Protection Supervisor (EDPS) — rules and responsibilities
Eurostat: rules and procedures for the establishment of the EU’s independent data protection supervisor (EDP)
European Union (EU) has established an independent authority responsible for ensuring that the fundamental rights and freedoms of natural persons, and their right to data protection, with respect to the processing of personal data, are respected by EU institutions, bodies, offices and agencies.
ACT
Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2018/1725 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2018 establishing the European Data Protection Supervisory Supervisor and repealing Decision No 541/2014/EU and Decision No 966/2012 (OJ L 193, 30.3.2018, pp. 1-8)
SUMMARY
WHAT DOES THIS REGULATION DO?
   
 
The regulation establishes the role and responsibilities of the Eurostat, the European Union's (EU's) independent authority, which is responsible for the protection of the rights and fundamental freedoms of the natural persons (e.g. the right to privacy, the right of access to information and to have their personal data protected and to be informed of their rights and obligations).
KEY POINTS
The role of the EDPS
The EDPS:
is responsible for:
ensuring that:
data protection is respected by the EU institutions and bodies, bodies and agencies;
protecting personal data;
monitoring and evaluating the application of EU data protection rules;
assisting the European Commission and the European Court of Justice;
collecting, analysing and disseminating the results of the data protection and data protection activities;
providing the Commission with information on data protection issues;
advising the Commission and other EU institutions on the use of data protection policies;
coordinating and coordinating the work of the Commission, the Commission's Directorate-General for Employment, Social Affairs and Inclusion (EDSA), the European Economic and Social Committee (EPSC) and the Committee of the Regions (CER);
monitor and evaluating data protection measures taken by the ESR and the EDPBudget and administration
The European Commission:
has the power to adopt and adopt the budget and the annual work programme for the period 2018-2027;
is the competent authority for the implementation of these budget and annual work programmes;
has powers to adopt the policy documents corresponding to its tasks and powers;
may adopt delegated acts to carry out the tasks and tasks delegated to it by the European data protection Supervisor;
can adopt decisions on the basis of a proposal from the Commission.
The Director is assisted by a Director-General, who assists the Director in the performance of his/her tasks. The Director reports to the Director and assists him/her in the execution of the duties of the Director.
In addition, the Director assists and assists the EPS Supervisor in the exercise of the responsibilities delegated to him or her by the Director, as well as on any other tasks delegated by the EDP Supervisor.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
The decision has applied since 1 March 2018.
BACKGROUND
 The European Union has established a new independent authority to ensure the protection and respect of the fundamental freedoms and fundamental rights of all natural persons.
For more information, see:
‘Data Protection Supervisor’ on Eurostat's website.
* KEY TERMS
* European Union institution, body, office or agency: an EU institution or body, body or agency, or any other body or body that has a legal personality and has the authority to adopt, adopt, monitor and evaluate the laws, regulations, decisions, decisions and administrative acts of the Union.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Decision (EU), Euratom
1.4.2018
-
OJ C 202 of 1.4 March 2018
Amending act(s)
Entry INTO FORCE
Deadlines for transposing in the member states
Official journal
Regulations (EU and Euratom):
Decisions (EC) 2019/856/2014, (EC), (EU/2020) and (EC/2027)
DecISION (EU)(EU) 2021/852, (Euratom) 2020/853, (EU-2020)
Commission Decision (EU)-2019/854
Commission Delegated Regulation (EEC) 2021-856 of 1 March 2021 on the establishment and operation of the Office of the Data Protection Board (EDPB) and amending Decision (EUR) 2019-852/2014 and repealing Decisions (CFSP) 2017/1939 and (EEU) 2017-1939
Commission Implementing Regulation (EU).
RELATED ACTS
Commission Recommendation of 27 February 2019 on the



Summary 70:
The EU’s system of own resources (OOR)
The EU's system of its own resources
SUMMARY OF:
Decision (CFSP) 2019/852 — the system of the EU's own resources and its annual appropriations for payments
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DECISION?
  
It sets out the rules for the use of the European Union's (EU) own resources.
It aims to ensure that the EU is able to meet its financial obligations, even in times of economic downturn.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The decision applies to all EU countries and the Commission.
The own resources allocated to the EU are:
1.40 % of the gross national income (GNI) of each EU country.
2.5 % of GNI of the Member States’ GNIs.
3.1 % of gross domestic product (GDP)* of each Member State.
4.5% of the Gross National Income of each non-EU country, including Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway and Switzerland.
5.7 % of GDP of non-Union countries, Iceland, Norway, Switzerland, Switzerland and Austria.
6.8 % of their GNI.
7.8% of GNIs of the non-union countries.
8.9 % of EU countries’ GDP.
9.1% of their Gross Domestic Product.
10.7% of all the GNI* of the Union.
11.7%.
The amount of own resource allocations to the Union is:
The total amount of appropriations to be made by the EU to cover the EU budget is not less than the sum of the GNIsland, sea, air, sea and inland water resources of each of the 28 EU countries;
the amount of the own resources to be used by the Commission to cover appropriations for payment:
a maximum amount of €1.5 billion;
a ceiling of €40 billion.
Each year, the Commission must communicate to the European Parliament and the Council the amount that it may annually call from a Member State for appropriations.
This amount must not exceed the amount of money that it receives from the EU country concerned.
If the amount is higher than the ceiling, it must be adjusted on the basis of a fixed deflator of 2% per year.
A maximum amount may be called from any Member State, subject to certain conditions.
Member States may continue to retain, by way of collection costs, 10 % of amounts referred to in point (a) of Article 2(1) of Directive 94/62/EC on packaging and packaging waste (OJ L 86, 5.3.2005, pp. 1-2).
The Commission may also call from any other Member State that is not covered by this decision.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS DECISION APPLY?
It has applied since 1 January 2019.
BACKGROUND
The OOR is the main source of revenue for the EU.
For more information, see:
‘Own resources’ on the European Commission's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Own resources: a system of economic resources that is used to finance the activities of the Commission and the EU as a whole. It is based on the principle that economic growth is the primary driver of economic development.
ACT
Council Decision of 27 January 2019 on the establishment of a system for the management of the resources of the Community and repealing Council Decision 2007/436/EC, Euratom of 7 June 2007 on the system to be established by the European Communities’ own resources [See amending act(s)].
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Official Journal
Official Journal
Council Regulation (EC) No 966/2012/2012
01.12.2012
-
OJ C 202 of 1.7.2012.
RELATED ACTS
Regulation (EU, EFTA) No 596/2013 of the Council of 11 March 2013 laying down the rules and implementing measures relating to the implementation of Council Regulation (Euratom) No 852/2011 on the own resource system and amending Council Decision 2006/856/EC and Council Decision 2005/270/EC of 22 March 2005 establishing the formats relating to its use [Official Journal L 347 of 12.11.2013].
Last updated: 30.08.2013



Summary 71:
Tyres — fuel efficiency and tyre abrasion and mileage (re-treaded tyres and wet grip tyres)
Tyres – fuel economy and tyre fatigue
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 596/2013 on the labelling and labelling of tyres
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to improve the safety and environmental performance of motor vehicles and their trailers.
It sets out rules on the content and format of the tyre label and on the information to be included in technical promotional material.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to tyres intended exclusively for racing vehicles. It does not apply to tyres designed only to be fitted on vehicles designed exclusively for road racing or to vehicles intended only for racing with a maximum speed rating of less than 80 km/h, or to tyres used exclusively for non-racing purposes.
The regulations apply to:
new tyres;
rereaded tires;
second-hand tyres; and
second‐hand tyres, unless such tyres are imported from a non-EU country.
In addition, the regulation sets out the responsibilities of tyre suppliers, importers and distributors of tyres, as well as of the European Commission, which has the power to adopt acts in accordance with Article 290 TFEU (the Treaty on European Union’s Framework Decision on the Functioning of the EU).
It also lays down the obligations of tyre manufacturers and importers to ensure that:
the tyre label is clearly visible on the vehicle;
the information on the tyre is clearly legible and legible;
inform the public of the fuel efficiency class, the wet grip class and the tyre fatigue class, and
instructions are clearly visible;
information on the tyres’ characteristics, such as the tyre type and type of use, is clearly indicated on the label;
all tyres are marked with the manufacturer's name, registered trade name and registered trade mark, and the postal address of the importer or importer;
any other information on a tyre is written in a language easily understood by the public.
EU countries must ensure that the regulation is implemented in their national legislation and that it does not impede the free movement of goods and persons within the EU.
FROM WHEN DOES THE REGULE APPLYAPPLY?
    барганскака гарка  гранка, гълараксанданна какка and глабанъка (гродна  хардна) are repealed and replaced by Regulation (EU) 2019/856 (see summary).
BACKGROUND
 
  дарталка is a major factor in reducing fuel consumption and energy consumption in motor vehicles.
For more information, see:
Fuel efficiency and tyres (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Tyre: a compound compound consisting of two or more rubber compounds.
* Tire type: a rubber compound intended for use only in the context of a motor vehicle and intended only in that vehicle.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Council Regulation (EC), Euratom
1.12.2013
-
OJ L 168 of 1.12 of the same day
Amending act(s)
Entry INTO FORCE
Date of entry into force
Transposition: Date of application
Final date
Deadlines for transposing in the member States
Regulations (EC, Euratom) No 1099/2013, (EC and Euratom), (EC Regulation (Euratom) 2016/2111, (EEC Regulation) and (EU Regulation) No 1299/2014
Regulating (EU, Euram) No 696/2012, (EU/EU) 2015/858, (Regulation(EU) 2017/1299, (RRC) No 1169/2014) and Regulation (CFSP) No 869/2013
Regulated (EU), Euram, Eurom, Euromonitor, EU, Eurocontrol, EU Agency for Safety and Health at Work, the European Union Agency for the Safety of Life at Work and the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA), the European Medicines Agency (Eurocontrol) and Eurocontrol (Eurocar)
last update 14.01.2019



Summary 72:
Funding for the modernisation of the EU’s external borders to fight fraud and serious crime: EU-wide programme for cooperation in the field of customs (EU-2020/2027) (see summary)
Finance for modernising the internal market for customs: the EU-2020-2027 Programme for cooperation
The European Union (EU) 2021/444 establishes a European Union-wide framework for cooperation for the purchase, maintenance and upgrading of customs control equipment. It aims to protect the EU and its Member States’ financial and economic interests while ensuring the availability of modern and reliable control equipment at the external borders.
ACT
Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2019/856 of 20 July 2019 establishing a European framework for the procurement, maintenance, upgrading and use of customs-related equipment for the period from 1 January 2021 to 31 December 2027.
SUMMARY
WHAT DOES THIS REGULATION DO?
It sets out the objectives and measures to be taken by the EU in order to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of customs controls.
The aim is to:
increase the efficiency and effectiveness of customs inspections;
improve the effectiveness of the detection of fraud;
ensure the protection of human health and safety;
fight against serious crime.
KEY POINTS
The objectives of the programme are to support:
the development of new customs control technology;
the use of innovative detection technology; and
the harmonisation of customs procedures.
To achieve these objectives, the EU countries must:
implement the objectives set out in Annex I of the regulation;
inform the European Commission and the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions of the measures they intend to take;
support the joint procurement and joint testing by two or more EU countries;
promote cooperation between the customs union and customs authorities.
Eligible actions
EU countries are required to take the necessary measures to implement the objectives of this regulation, including:
promoting cooperation between their customs authorities;
encouraging the use of new technologies;
providing the Commission with a list of equipment that may be used to achieve the objectives;
establishing an evaluation committee to report on the progress towards the achievement of the objectives.
In order to respond appropriately to evolving policy priorities, threats and technologies, the Commission has the power to adopt acts in accordance with Article 290 TFEU in respect of amending the indicative list of goods and equipment to be used for the customs control purposes and the list of indicators to measure the achievement.
FROM WHEN DOES THE IMPLEMENTATION APPLY?
The regulation has applied since 1 January 2019.
BACKGROUND
The EU has adopted a number of measures to modernise its internal market, in particular:
Implementing Regulation (EC) No 596/2013, which establishes the European Union Customs Code (the ‘Customs Code’);
Regulation (EU), which sets up the Customs programme (the 'Customs programme’) to support the EU Customs Union and the customs authorities (the Customs programme);
Decision (CFSP) 2017/849, which sets out a framework for EU-2019/2028 for the establishment of a European Customs Information System (ECIS);
Commission Decision (EU).
For more information, see:
‘Funding the EU's external borders’ on the Commission's website.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Council Resolution (EU/444/Euratom) of 21 July 2019
1.1.2019
-
OJ L 168 of 22.7.2019, pp. 1-7
RELATED ACTS
Regulations (EU and EFSP) No 1099/2014/EC, of the Council and of the Commission, of 11 December 2014 on the establishment and operation of the European Customs Observatory and repealing Regulation (EEC) 2015/852 (OJ C 202, 11.12.2014, pp 1-2)
Commission Implementing Regulation(EU) No 849/2014 of 22 December 2014 laying down the rules for the application of the Regulation (C) No 652/2013 laying down Community rules relating to the establishment, operation and supervision of the Community Customs Code and the Customs Code, and repealing Regulations (EC, EC, EC) No 496/2003, (EC), (EC).
Commission Delegated Regulation (UE) 2018/858 of 11 March 2018 laying down rules for applying the Regulation to the implementation of the Instrument for the Improvement of the Internal Market for the Protection of Human Health and the Safety of Life at the External Borders (Annex I to the Implementing Decision).
last update 04.11.2018



Summary 73:
Electricity price harmonisation and transparency in the electricity market
Electricity temperature harmonisation
SUMMARY OF:
Directive 2014/60/EU on electricity price harmonization and transparency
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DIRECTIVE?
   
 
It aims to improve the transparency and efficiency of electricity markets in the European Union (EU).
KEY POINTS
The directive sets out rules on:
the transmission system operator’s (TSO) role and responsibilities;
the role of the regulatory authority;
public participation in the development of the system;
market participants’ rights and obligations.
It also aims to ensure that electricity consumers are better informed about the benefits and potential price risks of dynamic electricity price contracts (DPCs).
It does not apply to:
transmission system operators (TSOs);
system operators*;
system users;
energy storage* and demand response* services;
distributed energy resources*; and
other energy-related services.
Scope
The legislation applies to all EU countries except Denmark, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway, Switzerland and the United Kingdom (1), Ireland and the European Free Trade Association (EFTA).
Regulation (EU) 2019/1788 amends the legislation to take account of the fact that the European Commission has adopted a new law on energy efficiency and transparency.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS DIRECTIVE APPLY?
It has applied since 1 January 2019 and had to become law in the EU countries by 1 January 2020.
BACKGROUND
The original directive, which entered into force on 1 January 2014, had to be amended by 1 February 2020. The new rules had to apply by 31 December 2018.
For more information, see:
‘Electricity Price Harmonisation and Transparency in the Energy Market (European Commission).
* KEY TERMS
* Transmission system operator: the body in charge of the transmission system of electricity in an EU country.
* System operator: a natural or legal person responsible for the operation of the EU electricity system and for the transmission of electricity to the consumer.
MAIN DOCUMENT
  (EU Directives 2014/62/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2014 on electricity market harmonisation (recast) and repealing Directive 2004/36/EC (OJ L 347, 31.12.2014, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Directive 2014/61/EU have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
 			
  The Commission adopted Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2018/1789 on the harmonisation of the laws of the Member States relating to energy efficiency, transparency and competition (see summary).
  This regulation amends Regulation (EC) No 1935/2004 as regards energy efficiency.
See consolidated version.
last update 04.01.2021



Summary 74:
EuroHPC Joint Undertaking for supercomputing and data infrastructure — building a federated and interconnected supercomputer and infrastructure in Europe (until 2023)
EuroHPS Joint undertaking for sub-exascale and petascale supercomputers (until 2020)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) 2018/1488 — EuroHPC joint undertaking for the construction and operation of federated/infrastructural infrastructure in the field of high-performance computing
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes a joint undertaking under Horizon 2020, the European Union’s (EU), to provide and manage access to federated* and interconnecting* high performance computing (HPC) infrastructure and its services.
It aims to support the development of an integrated and interconnected HPC ecosystem in Europe.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to the following projects:
the creation of a European supercomputer joint undertaking (Euro-HPCJUB)* and the acquisition and ownership of quantum computers and quantum simulators;
the establishment of a hosting consortium (HUB) to acquire and own the mid-range and high-precursor precursors to exascale (i.e. high-powered computers) and the building of an infrastructure to support their use;
acquisition and ownership by the HUB and the establishment of the hosting consortium.
Objectives
The HUBJUB aims to:
provide access to the HPC infrastructure to users of the participating participating countries to enable them to participate in the development and use of the pre-extended and ex-ascale* high-performing supercomparallelic computing systems;
contribute to the creation and development of the infrastructure to enable users to benefit from the benefits of the access to these systems, such as:
access to the infrastructure for research and development;
facilities and services for training facilities and skills development opportunities.
Cooperation with the Partnership for Advanced Computing in Europe
The JUB will be able to cooperate with the partnership for advanced computing (PRACE) for providing and managing access to a federation-wide and inter-connecting supercomputer infrastructure, as well as with PRACE for the provision of services and training facilities.
Joint Undertaking
JUB will operate under the following conditions:
participating countries are required to grant the JUB access to their national supercomputer sites and to the participating countries the right to use the infrastructure, subject to certain conditions;
participation in the joint undertaking is based on the following criteria:
membership is open to all participating countries, with the exception of Denmark, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway, Switzerland and the United Kingdom (1).
The participating countries are responsible for:
contributing to the total cost of the acquisition, ownership and management of the high-proprietary systems and infrastructure;
providing the hosting entity with the necessary financial resources to acquire the high and mid-performance systems and the infrastructure necessary to operate them;
cooperating with the PRACE to develop the infrastructure and to identify priorities for collaborative research;
promoting the use of advanced computing in Europe, in particular in the areas of:
research and innovation;
supporting the creation of an inter-disciplinary supercomputer network;
developing and managing the infrastructure in line with the objectives of Horizon 2020;
encouraging and facilitating the sharing of best practice and best practice in the area of advanced research.
Functioning of the joint undertaking
The Governing Board is composed of a Research and Scientific Advisory Board and an Infrastructure Advisory Group. It is chaired by the Executive Director and comprises representatives of participating countries. It adopts a list of decisions adopted by its members, and is assisted by a Scientific and Technical Advisory Board.
The Joint Board is responsible for the implementation of the regulation, including:
approving the work programme for a given year;
adopting the annual work programme;
drawing up, adopting, adopting and implementing the work programmes for the following years;
setting up and adopting the annual working programme for the period from 1 January to 31 December;
drafting and adopting implementing acts and implementing implementing acts.
FROM WHEN DOES THE LEGULATION APPLY?
The Regulation has applied since 1 January 2019 and had to become law in the Member States by 1 January 2020.
BACKGROUND
   
For more information, see:
Horizon 2020 — Joint undertaking (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Supercomputer: a supercomputer or supercomputer-related infrastructure.
* HPC: a system or system-based infrastructure that supports the development, use and use-making of high performance computers.
MAIN DOCUMENT
 
  Егансканка на гакова бакка  б



Summary 75:
Climate-neutrality objective for the EU by 2040: 2020-2050 (2020-2040)
Climate- neutrality objective: 2020–2040 (2020–2050)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) 2021/1119 — EU-wide climate target for 2040
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out the EU’s long-term objective to achieve a climate-neutral* economy by 2020.
KEY POINTS
The objective is to achieve the climate neutrality* objective by 2020, which is to be achieved by 2050.
To achieve this objective, the EU is committed to stepping up its efforts to tackle climate change and to deliver on the Paris Agreement adopted under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (the ‘Paris Agreement’).
The EU is also committed to tackling climate change in a cost-effective, equitable and sustainable way.
The regulation sets out how the EU will achieve the objective and how it will adapt to climate change, taking into account different national circumstances in terms of starting points.
In 2020, the Commission will set out a common framework for the development of the EU's climate policy. This framework will include:
a common approach to climate and energy policy;
the establishment of an Advisory Board to advise the Commission on climate policy; and
the creation of a Climate Neutrality Advisory Board, which will support the Commission in its climate policy development.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMEMBER DOCUMENT APPLACE INTO FORCE
 
   
It has applied since 1 January 2021.
BACKGROUND
 The regulation has been amended several times.
For more information, see:
‘Climate neutrality’ on the European Commission's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Climate neutrality: the objective of achieving a climate neutral economy by 2050 by which the EU aims to reduce its greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by at least 30 % below 1990 levels compared to 1990 levels. This is achieved by investing in a low-carbon economy and reducing the emissions of GHG emissions from energy, transport, agriculture, forestry and fisheries, as well as in energy efficiency, energy efficiency and energy efficiency in buildings, buildings and infrastructure.
ACT
  Ебарсканарка на гранка  бакка (Commission Regulation (EC) No 401/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 October 2009 establishing a system for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading within the EU and amending Council Directive 96/61/EC (OJ L 275, 25.10.2009, pp. 1–8)
Successive amendments and corrections to Regulation (EEC) 2018/1999 have been incorporated in the basic text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED ACTS
  (1) The Commission adopts Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2019/856 amending Regulation (C) No 552/2013 on the establishment of the Advisory Board for climate policy (see summary) and repealing Council Regulation (CFSP) No 479/2008 (O J L 347, 28.11.2019, pp 1–5)
last update 04.11-06.2019



Summary 76:
Health and well-being: EU4Health programme
Health and Well-being : EU4health programme
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) 2019/849 — EU4H programme
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
   
 
It sets out the general principles and guidelines for the implementation of the EU’s Health and Wellbeing Programme (EU4H).
KEY POINTS
The programme aims to improve the quality and safety of human health in the European Union (EU), in particular by:
improving access to and access to quality health care;
reducing the risk of communicable diseases;
promoting access to affordable, high-quality, safe and accessible health care in the EU;
ensuring that all EU citizens have access to safe and quality healthcare;
providing a high level of health protection to all citizens, irrespective of their nationality, religion, ethnic origin, gender, age, disability or sexual orientation.
It also aims to:
improve the quality of health care and the availability of health services;
improve access to health care for all citizens;
contribute to the prevention, control and eradication of preventable and curable diseases and to the development of effective preventive health care systems;
strengthen cooperation between EU countries in the field of health and social protection;
increase the participation of the private sector in the health sector;
encourage the participation and participation of women in the decision-making process;
facilitate the exchange of information and best practice;
raise awareness of the importance of the role of the European Commission in health policymaking.
The regulation also lays down the following objectives:
to:
promote access to high quality, safe, accessible and affordable health care, including access to preventive healthcare for all;
support the development and implementation of quality health services, including through the creation of a European Health Information System (EHIS);
improve health promotion and dissemination of information on health and safety;
fight against the spread of infectious diseases, such as HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, hepatitis C, sexually transmitted diseases, and the common cold;
establish a European health information system (EHS);
ensure the protection of children, adolescents and vulnerable groups;
protect the right to life and health of the elderly, vulnerable groups and persons with disabilities.
To achieve these objectives, the programme is funded by the general budget of the Union.
EU4Health is implemented by the Commission, which is assisted by a Commission Advisory Committee. The Commission is responsible for the overall management of the programme and for its implementation.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
It has applied since 1 January 2019.
BACKGROUND
 			
The European Commission has adopted a number of implementing acts to implement the programme.
For more information, see:
‘Health and wellbeing’ on the Commission's website.
KEY TERMS
* Health and wellbeing: a term used in the Treaty on European Union to describe the quality, safety and effectiveness of all EU policies and activities.
* Human health: the health of people, including their health, safety, security and wellbeing.
MAIN DOCUMENT
  (Regulation) (EC) No 849/2019 of the Council and of the Representatives of the Governments of the Member States, meeting within the Council of 11 March 2019 on the implementation and coordination of the Programme for the Improvement of Access to Quality Healthcare in the Community (OJ L 157, 12.4.2019, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EC), No 851/2019 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
  [Official Journal L 347 of 20.11.2019].
Regulations (EC, Euratom) No 596/2014, (EU/2014/EU) and (Euratom) 2018/856 of the General Assembly of 26 February 2014 on the European Medicines Agency and the European Food Safety Authority, and repealing Council Regulation (EEC, EC) No 652/2004 (O J L 347, 26.2.2014, pp.).
Regulating (EU, EFTA) No 1296/2013 of the United Nations General Assembly and Council of 12 March 2013 on the protection and dissemination in the context of the International Year of Health and of Long-Term Health of the Human Body and amending Council Regulations (EC and Euratom), (EC/966/2008, (ECE) No 1096/2008 and (ECB/2009) and Directives 2011/24/EU and 2014/30/EU of the World Health Organization, (EURO) and Council Framework Decision No 552/2008 of 25 May 2013 on Community action in the fields of health, and on the prevention and control of infectious disease



Summary 77:
Programme for the Development of the Media and Audiovisual strand of the European Research and Development Fund (ERDF) 2018-2021
Programme to develop the Media strand of The European Research & Development Fund
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) 2018/2021 — the programme for the development of the media and audiovisually-oriented strand of THE MEDIA STRAND
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out the programme’s objectives and the structure for its implementation.
It also sets out how the programme is funded.
KEY POINTS
The programme is implemented through an annual work programme.
The objectives of the programme are to:
promote a free, diverse and pluralistic media environment, encouraging crossovers and cross-cutting activities;
encourage the creation of a free and diverse media environment;
strengthen the role of non-governmental organisations (NGOs) in the media sector;
improve the quality and diversity of information and communication technology (ICT) services;
increase the visibility of EU research and development (R&D) activities; and
support the work of the Observatory of European Union (OECD).
The EDF is funded by the European Investment Bank (EIB) and the European Social Fund for Research and Innovation (ESF).
It is also open to participation from non-EU countries.
FROM WHEN DOES THE PROGRAMME APPLY?
The regulation has applied since 1 January 2019.
BACKGROUND
   
It was amended by Regulation (EC) No 5962/2014 — see summary.
For more information, see:
‘The Media strand’ on the European Commission's website.
* KEY TERMS
* EDF: an EU-wide, multiannual, multi-annual, public-financed research and investment programme. It aims to support research, development and innovation in the areas of education, culture, health and the environment.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2019/1821 of 11 December 2018 establishing the programme ‘The European Research And Development Fund’ (OJoint application) for the period 2018-2020 and repealing Regulation (Euratom) No 2/2014.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
Council Decision 2014/856/EU of 25 March 2014 establishing the European Observatory of Research and Information Technology (OID) and repealing Council Decision 2004/9/EC (Joint action plan on the establishment of an OID).
Council Directive 2010/13/EU establishing a framework for cooperation between the OID and the EU institutions and bodies in the field of research and innovation.
Decision 2014/1856/EC of the Council and of the Representatives of the Governments of the Member States meeting within the Council of 11 May 2014 establishing a Framework for Cooperation and Cooperation between the European Institutions and the Institutions in the fields of research, education and culture, and establishing a European Network for Research & Innovation (ENRIT) and amending Council Directive 2004/94/EC.
Council Framework Decision 2013/849/EC establishing the Framework for cooperation and innovation between the Commission, the European Parliament, the Council, the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions.
last update 04.01.2020



Summary 78:
European Institute of Innovation and Technology (EIT): strategy for the 7-year period 2021-2027 (until 31 December 2027)
European institute of innovation and technology
SUMMARY OF:
Implementing Regulation (EU) 2021/695 — strategy for a more innovative Europe
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out the EIT’s strategic objectives for the period from 2021 to 2027.
It also sets out its key actions and the priorities for this period.
KEY POINTS
The EIT aims to:
strengthen innovation ecosystems by continuing to support existing knowledge-based research centres (KICs) in addressing global challenges through the integration of the knowledge triangle at EU, national, regional and local level;
promote the sharing of best practices and best practices between KICs;
contribute to the development of knowledge and innovation-based jobs and growth in Europe;
support research and innovation in the areas of creativity, cultural and linguistic diversity, European identity and cohesion, European employment, economic resilience and smart growth, and Europe as a global actor.
The strategy is based on four pillars:
1.
Strengthening innovation ecosystems and relevant actors of the know-how triangle (i.e. for education and training, research, innovation and entrepreneurship) on a broader scale.
2.
Enhancing participation and strengthening the European Research Area (ERA) in the ‘Widening Participation and Strengthening the EU Research Area’ part of Horizon Europe, including the teaming and twinning activities and the outreach activities that it supports.
3.
Encouraging the participation of non-EU countries in the ERAIN-funded research and development projects.
4.
Supporting the development and growth of knowledge ecosystems in Europe, particularly in the fields of creativity and cultural diversity.
5.
Promoting the participation and competitiveness of EU countries in research, education and innovation (R&I).
6.
Investing in research and education (R & I).
7.
Strategies and priorities
The SIA must set out the priority fields and the strategies for the seven-year EIT for each of these fields in accordance with:
Regulation (EC) No 596/2014 — setting up the European Innovation and Entrepreneurship Agency (EIA) (see summary);
Regulations (EC, Euratom) No 6/2014 and (EC), No 7/2014 establishing the European Science and Innovation Foundation (ESIF) and (EU), as amended by Regulation (Euratom) 2019/856 (see below);
Decision (EU, EU) 2020/852 laying down the rules for the establishment of the EIA and the EIF;
Decisions (EU and EU countries) 2020-2023 setting up a European Innovation Network (see above);
Council Decision (EU/2020/1) setting up an Innovation Network for the European Union (See below).
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
The regulation entered into force on 1 January 2021.
BACKGROUND
   
 
For more information, see:
‘A more innovative EU’ on the European Commission's website.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force — Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Commission Implementing Regulation(EU) 2017/854
1 January 2021
-
OJ L 347 of 20.12.2017
RELATED ACTS
 			
Regulating (EU)* No 593/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2014 establishing the framework for the implementation of the InvestEU Programme and amending Regulation (EC" No 594/2013" (OJ C 202, 12.11.2014, pp. 1-7)
Regulated (EU" No 12/2014) No 1216/2014 on the establishment and operation of the EU Innovation Network and repealing Council Decision 2004/769/EC and Council Regulation (CFSP) No 496/2004 (OJC L 347, 20.10.2014)
See consolidated version.
last update 04.01.2020



Summary 79:
Aromatised wine products — geographical indications and labelling of certain aromatised wines (Regulation (EU) No 1169/2011)
Aromated wine products: geographical indications
SUMMARY OF:
Delegated Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2015/1169 on the definition, description, presentation, labelling and protection of geographical indications of certain aromatic wine products
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out the rules applicable to the definition and description of certain categories of aromatisation (i.e. the production of wine with aromatic characteristics) and the presentation of these products.
It aims to protect the geographical indications (GIs) of organic wines produced in the EU.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to:
wines produced in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 834/2007 (see summary);
wine-product cocktails (e.g. wine-product cocktail);
salt-based wines;
sour wine; and
wine with a fruity or fruity flavour.
Products covered by the regulation must comply with the following requirements:
the product must be produced in compliance with the regulation’s Annex I;
the production processes and methods of analysis must be carried out according to the rules laid down in Annex II;
a description of the products must be provided for in Annex III;
an indication of the geographical origin of the product is provided in Annex IV.
The product must bear the name of the producer or the place of origin and the country of origin indicated in Annex V.
An indication of origin must be given in Annex VI.
Labelling
The European Commission may adopt delegated acts in order to establish the conditions under which product specifications may include additional requirements to those referred to in the annexes to the regulation.
FROM WHEN DOES THE DELEGATION APPLACE?
   
Regulation(EU) 2016/1239 has applied since 1 January 2017.
BACKGROUND
 
  The regulation is part of a package of measures designed to modernise EU rules on organic wine production and marketing.
For more information, see:
‘Wines and spirits’ on the European Commission's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Aromatisation: the production and presentation of wine products with an aromatic character. Aromatic characteristics refer to the presence of aromatics in the wine, such as aromatics, aromatics and fruity aromatics. The term ‘Aromatic wine’ is used to describe wine with an aromatic character. It does not refer to a specific wine or a specific category of wine product.
ACT
Commission Delegation (EU), Euratom of 12 December 2015 on the interpretation, application and enforcement of Council Regulation (EEC, No 868/2011 of 28 November 2015 relating to geographical indications in the field of aromatic wines (OJ L 183, 1.1.2016, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (CE) No 1217/2011 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED ACTS
 Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 on the harmonisation of the laws of the Member States relating to the production, marketing and taxation of wines and spirits and repealing Council Regulations (EC, EFTA and the European Economic and Social Committee) No 552/2004 and (EC), No 556/2004 (O J L 347, 29.12.2013, pp 1-2)
See consolidated version.
last update 04.01.2017



Summary 80:
Fishing season 2019-2020: landing obligation for certain species of fish and by-catches in the Baltic and the Faroe Islands (see summary)
Fishing period 2019-2021: laying down landing obligation and bycatch limits for certain fish and other species
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) 2019/2021 laying down the landing obligation (TAC) for certain fishing species in the Faroes, the Canary Islands, the Azores and the South Atlantic
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out the EU’s landing obligation* and the by-catch limits* for certain fishery species in 2019 and 2020.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to:
fishing for:
the following species:
Horse mackerel,
greater silver smelt,
pelagic fish,
coccod,
sharks,
whiting,
fish aggregating devices (FADs),
targets,
fisheries,
target species,
catch limits and
by-catch values.
It does not apply to certain fish stocks, such as:
cod and whiting;
the swordfish;
crocodile;
tarpon;
fish aggregation devices;
marine mammals and crustaceans;
molluscs;
spotted fish;
catches of certain species; and
marine species.
TACs are set out in the following consultation with the European Commission, the European Fisheries Management Organisation (EFMO) and the European Maritime and Fisheries Authority (Eurostat).
By-catcher values are based on the total allowable catches* (tACs) of the species and on the number of fishing vessels.
Limits
EU Member States may not exceed the TACs set out by the regulation for the following species, sub-zones and sub-Zones:
Coccod (precautionary TAC);
cropaceans (precutionary and indicative TAC)
great white shark (pre-convention TAC),
great blackfin tuna (preconvention CACs);
great blue shark (Pre-Convention Area C);
spat sea breams (Preconvention Area D); and
spaice (prevention Area E).
The EU Member States are responsible for ensuring that:
all fishing vessels are registered and registered with the Commission;
all vessels are licensed and registered in the Member States;
there is no transfer of fishing authorisations between Member States and the Commission is responsible for the management of the fishing season.
The Member States must take the necessary measures to ensure compliance with the regulation, including:
keeping a record of all catches;
ensuring that fishing vessels comply with the catch limits;
keeping an inventory of all the fish caught;
establishing a register of vessels registered in each Member State;
monitoring the compliance of vessels with the quotas;
taking the necessary steps to ensure that vessels do not overfishing;
notifying the Commission of any infringements of the regulation.
Specific rules apply to the following fish stocks.
Fisheries
The following species are excluded from the regulation:
carpaceans,
spirosa,
dolphinidae,
catfish,
sea breams,
mackerel and associated by-catch values;
great greyfin tuna,
the fish aggregating device,
common porbeagle,
tropical fish, and
cetaceans.
In addition, the regulation sets out:
limits for the catch of certain fish aggregated devices (CADs) in certain Member States’ territorial waters;
limits on the amount of fish caught by vessels in certain fishing areas;
limit on the quantity of fish taken by vessels using FADs;
a limit on the quantities of fish landed by vessels operating in certain parts of the sea.
Member States must ensure that the following measures are in place to ensure the conservation of the stocks of the fish in question:
prevention measures are taken to protect the stocks;
precautions are taken for the protection of the populations of fish species in question;
measures are taken in the event of a decline in the abundance or abundance of fish aggregates;
reciprocal measures are put in place for the conservation and management of fish stocks in the areas covered by this regulation;
targeted measures are adopted to protect fish stocks and to encourage the sustainable use of fishing gear and equipment.
Bycatch values
The European Commission may set maximum catch values for fish and/or bycatch values for specific species, based on:
total allowable catches,
total bycatch value,
bycatch values and
the number of vessels operating;
total catch values per tonne of fish, per species, per sub-zone, per



Summary 81:
EU macro-financial assistance to Ukraine (2017-2022)
EU macro–financial assistance (2017–2020)
SUMMARY OF:
Decision (EU) 2017/2022 — financial assistance for Ukraine
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DECISION?
It provides for the EU to provide medium-term financial assistance of up to €2.8 billion to Ukraine under the terms of a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) signed on 1 September 2017.
KEY POINTS
The EU’s financial assistance will be provided in the form of:
€1.5 billion for macroeconomic and financial assistance;
€2 billion for the period 2017–2022; and
€3 billion for financial assistance from the International Monetary Fund (IMF).
The terms of the MOU are set out in the annex to the decision.
The European Commission is responsible for the management of the financial assistance. It is assisted by a committee composed of representatives of the European Economic and Social Committee (ESC) and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Security Policy.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS DECISION APPLY?
The decision entered into force on 1 October 2017. It has applied since 1 January 2018.
BACKGROUND
The MOU between the EU and Ukraine is one of a series of bilateral agreements signed in 2014. The other agreements are:
the EU-Ukraine Association Agreement (see summary);
the Association Agreement with the European Atomic Energy Community;
the Kyiv Declaration; and the Kyiv declaration of independence.
For more information, see:
Kyiv (European External Action Service).
KEY TERMS
* Monetary and Financial Assistance (MAINVAT: the amount of financial assistance provided by the European Union (EU).
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Decision (EU), Euratom, Euratom and Euratom Decision of 1 March 2017 on macroeconomic assistance to the Republic of Ukraine (OJ L 165, 1.4.2017, pp. 1–8)
RELATED DOCUMENTS
   
 
Regulation (EU, Eurom) No 1296/2013 of the Council of the EU establishing a European Neighbourhood for the stabilisation of the Member States in the context of the common foreign and security policy (NEO) and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 182/2011 of 16 February 2011 laying down the general rules and general principles for the exercise of implementing powers and Regulation (Euratom) No 1304/2013 laying down general rules for the implementation of the mutual assistance agreement between the European Community and Ukraine (the ‘Association Agreement’), including a deep and comprehensive free trade area (DCFTA).
Council Recommendation of 27 June 2013 on the European Neighborhood Policy for the Eastern Partnership and for the Western Balkan States in view of the situation arising from the accession of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia to the Community.
last update 04.01.2019



Summary 82:
Convention on the conservation of Atlantic Tunas: rules for the fishing of Mediterranean swordfish in recreational fisheries (until 2021) (Regulation (EU) 2021/2195)
Convention of the International Convention for the Conservation of Atlantic Tuna (ICCAT Convention)
SUMMARY OF:
Implementing Regulation (EC) No 596/2010 — rules for fishing of the Mediterranean sword fish in recreational waters
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to ensure the conservation and sustainable management of the marine environment in the Mediterranean Sea by establishing minimum standards for fishing vessels and technical characteristics of fishing gear.
It also aims to protect the marine ecosystems of Atlantic tunas, a group of fish that includes swordfish, by establishing a common framework for the management of Mediterranean and Atlantic swordfish fishing.
KEY POINTS
  
The regulation applies to fishing vessels operating in the Atlantic Ocean and to recreational fishing vessels using harpoons or pelagic longlines. It does not apply to:
fishing effort;
landings and transshipments;
designated ports;
the number and type of vessels that can operate in an EU country’s exclusive economic zone (EEZ);
the type and number of vessels authorised to fish in an EEZ; and
the types of fishing effort.
Management measures
EU countries must:
ensure that:
the fishing effort is managed according to the minimum standards set out in the regulation;
fisheries are carried out in accordance with the rules laid down in Annex I to the regulation (see summary);
recipients of the fishing effort are informed of the measures to be taken;
all fishing gear and equipment used in the fisheries are inspected by qualified inspectors;
ships and transhipments are accompanied by a certificate of authorisation issued by the competent authority of the EU country in which the vessel is registered.
Inspections
Each year, EU countries must carry out an inspection of all fishing vessels in their EEZ and submit a report to the European Commission on their implementation of the regulation.
The report must include:
a description of the type and quantity of fish caught;
a list of the number and types of vessels and the number of persons on board;
information on the number, type and weight of swordfish caught by each vessel;
details of the types and quantities of fishing equipment used.
Monitoring and control measures
Each EU country is responsible for:
monitoring and controlling fishing effort and fishing gear;
ensuring that vessels comply with the management measures;
checking that equipment and equipment is in good working order;
carrying out regular inspections of fishing vessels;
keeping a register of all the fishing gear used;
taking the necessary measures to prevent, detect and report any infringements of the regulations.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
Regulation(EU) 2019/2196 has applied since 1 January 2021.
BACKGROUND
 
 Â   Â
  (European Commission)
For more information, see:
‘Swordfish Conservation’ on the Commission's website.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2017/596 of 15 December 2017 laying down rules for fishery management in the recreational waters of the European Union (Codification Regulation) (OJ L 157, 1.1.2019, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EEC) 2016/1596 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
 			
  [Official Journal C 202 of 27.12.2017].
  This consolidated edition is of Document value only
Council Decision 2014/856/EU of 27 December 2014 on the signing, on behalf of the Union, of the Convention for International Cooperation in the Conservation and the Protection of the Marine Environment (Cotonou Convention) (codification Regulation (CITES) No 856/2014) (Official Journal L 347, 28.11.2014).
last update 14.01.2020



Summary 83:
Multiannual financial framework for the EU’s financial stabilisation mechanism (MFF) (2014-2021)
Multiannational financial framework (MFS) for the European Union’ s financial stabilising mechanism (2014 - 2020)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 596/2013 establishing a multiannual framework to provide financial support for the stabilisation of the EU's financial system
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out the rules for the establishment of the European Financial Stabilisation Mechanism (EFSM).
It aims to ensure that the EFSM provides financial support to the EU in the event of a natural or man-made disaster.
KEY POINTS
The regulation sets out:
the duration of the MFF from 2014 to 2020;
the own resources ceiling for the period 2014-2020;
a technical adjustment for the years 2015-2020.
The MFF is funded by the EU countries’ contributions to the European Investment Bank (EIB), the European Social Fund (ESF) and the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF).
The European Commission is responsible for the operation of the Fund and for its management.
It is financed by the EIB, the ESI Fund and the EAFRD, and is managed by the European Commission.
Eligibility
The ESI is open to all EU countries, except Denmark, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway and Switzerland.
Each year, the Commission determines the amount of funding to be made available to each EU country, subject to certain conditions, such as the following:
EUR 7 billion for 2014-2019: €7 billion;
€9 billion for 2020-2025: €10 billion for the same period;
Eur 10 billion for each of the following years: 2021-2027: €8 billion;2028-2029: €9 billion;2020-2031: €11 billion; and
2032-2033: €5 billion.
In exceptional cases, the European Parliament and the Council may decide to provide additional financial support, in particular in the case of natural disasters.
If the amount is not sufficient to cover the total amount of assistance provided by the Fund in the year of occurrence of the disaster, and if the Commission proposes that the difference be financed through the annual amounts available for the following year. The Commission may propose that the amount be financed by:
revenue to the Contingency Margin: the maximum amount that can be recovered by the Commission from any given year, in accordance with the own-resource ceiling;
recourse to the own resources margin: the amount that is not covered by the own resource ceiling, but which is calculated to be equivalent to the difference between the executed payments and the annual MFF payment ceiling of the year n-1.
FROM WHEN DOES IT APPLY?
The Regulation has applied since 1 January 2014 and had to become law in the EU Member States by 1 January 2015.
BACKGROUND
   
The financial stability mechanism was set up in 2010.
For more information, see:
‘The European Financial Stability Mechanism’ on the Commission's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Multiannual Financial Framework: a financial framework set up for a period of 7 years by the Council and the Commission. It is designed to provide the EU with the financial resources it needs to prepare and implement medium-term investments.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Council Regulation (EC) No 550/2013
1.1.2014
-
OJ L 183 of 1.6.2013
Amending act(s)
Entry INTO FORCE
Date of entry into force
Transposition: Date of application
Expiry date
Expiration date
Dateof transposition
Date for implementation
Exchange rate
Decision 2014/596/EC
01.01.2014 - Euratom
31.12.2014: Euratom Decision 2014/743/EC, Euratom of 7 June 2014 on the system of the ESSM and repealing Decision 2007/436/EC [Official Journal L 163 of 23.06.2014].
Last updated: 30.08.2014



Summary 84:
Fisheries and aquaculture in the outermost regions of the ocean: EU funding for the sustainable management of fisheries
Fishers and aqua-fisheries in the outsidemost regions: European Maritime and Fisheries Fund (EMFAF)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) 2019/849 laying down the priorities and specific rules for funding the European Mediterranean and Faroe Islands Fisheries Fund
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out the EMFAF’s priorities, its budget and rules for providing EU funding, complementing the general rules applicable to the EU Fisheries Fund.
KEY POINTS
Funding
The regulation sets out:
the priorities and the specific rules to be followed by the EU to support the EU-led fisheries sector;
the budget and the eligibility of entities and activities covered by this regulation;
a list of eligible entities, activities and costs to be supported;
specific rules for the allocation of EU funding under shared management.
The EMFA Fund is funded by the European Union (EU), the European Commission and the European Economic and Social Fund (ESF).
It is managed by the Commission, which is assisted by the Council of the EU. It is responsible for:
monitoring and evaluating the implementation of its activities;
providing the Commission with the results and output indicators set out in Annex I of the regulation; and
assessing the impact of its actions on the EU fisheries sector.
Eligible entities
The following entities are eligible for funding under this regulation:
fishing vessels, including:
small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs);
medium-sized and large enterprises;
large enterprises with a turnover of over €1 million;
fishery-fishing-related businesses;
operators of fishing vessels;
businesses with more than 50 employees;
other undertakings in the fishery sector with a total annual turnover of more than €500,000;
individuals and groups of individuals;
agriculture-related entities;
non-governmental organisations;
professional associations;
research and development bodies;
specialised research institutes;
scientific and technical organisations.
Support
The EU supports the following activities:
promoting sustainable management and sustainable use of the marine environment;
protecting marine ecosystems;
improving marine ecosystems and marine biodiversity;
encouraging the sustainable development of marine ecosystems, including the protection of marine protected areas;
contributing to the conservation and management of marine life;
ensuring the sustainable exploitation of marine resources;
supporting research and development in the field of marine environment and marine environment policy;
facilitating the exchange of information and best practice in marine environment management;
developing and disseminating scientific and technical information on marine environment policies and programmes;
exchanging information and expertise;
sharing best practice and best practices in marine environmental protection;
cooperating with non-EU countries;
participating in the management of the fisheries sector, in particular through the participation of EU countries.
Budget
EU funding is divided into 2 categories:
Direct management:
€1.5 billion for direct management, which covers:
financing the activities of EU Member States;
spreading the financial support between the Member States under direct and indirect management. The Member States are responsible for determining the amount of the direct management budget.
Indirect management: funding is shared between the EU and the EU countries for the following:
support for the establishment, management and operation of the European Marine Environment Facility (EMEF);
contribution to the establishment of a European Fisheries Facility (EFF);
support to the development of a marine protected area (MPA);
assistance for research and innovation;
assessment of the impact on marine ecosystems.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 July 2019.
BACKGROUND
 
  * KEY TERMS
* Fishing vessel: any fishing vessel owned or operated by an individual or group of individuals.
* Medium-sized enterprise: a business with a net turnover of at least €500 million.
ACT
  барганска гранка (European Commission) 2018/848 of 1 July 2018 laying down priorities and implementing rules for EU funding the EU's fisheries sector (recast) (OJ L 283, 31.7.2018, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EC) No 849/2018 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member State concerned
Official Journal
Decision No 745/2019/EU
1.8.2019
-
O



Summary 85:
Convention on the International Trade in Tuna and Blackfin tuna (CITTO) — EU fishing vessels and the International Association for the Conservation of Atlantic Tunas (IATTC) (until 31 December 2020)
Conservation and management of marine species (until the end of 2023)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 520/2007 on the EU fishing vessel register and the Convention relating to the International Agreement on the Conservation and Management of Straddling Fish Stocks and Highly Migratory Fish Species
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to prevent, deter and eliminate illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing of bigeye tuna and other marine species by establishing a Community system to prevent and deter such fishing.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to Union fishing vessels used or intended for use for the purposes of fishing in the area covered by the Convention.
It does not apply to:
fishing vessels flying the flag of a non-EU country;
non-EU fishing vessels using or intended to use for fishing in an EU country’s territorial waters;
unmanned fishing vessels;
ships used by non-Union fishing vessels under the authority of a country other than the EU country.
EU countries must ensure that:
all fishing vessels are registered in accordance with the regulation;
the vessel registry is kept up to date and up-to-date;
there is a register of all fishing vessels registered in the EU countries;
fisheries carried out under the regulation (Regional Vessel Register (RVR) is maintained by EU countries.
The register is updated by the European Commission every 5 years.
Monitoring of fishing activities
The European Commission is responsible for monitoring the fishing activities of EU countries’ fishing vessels.
Observers
The Commission appoints one or more observers per EU country to monitor the activities of the IATTC observer programme.
Each year, the Commission assesses and, where applicable, forwards a request for an observer to participate in a fishing operation to the Commission. If the Commission considers that an observer is not required, it informs the Commission of the reasons for the decision.
If an observer withdraws from the programme due to a lack of satisfactory information, it must inform the Commission within 30 days of receiving the request. The Commission must assess and, if applicable, forward the request for reconsideration of the request to the IACT Secretariat for consideration by 1 month after the cessation of the cause of the force majeure.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 January 2008 and had to become law in the Member States by 1 January 2009.
BACKGROUND
The Convention is one of a series of international agreements designed to ensure the conservation and sustainable management of living resources of the sea.
For more information, see:
‘Convention’ on the website of the International Commission for the Protection of the Marine Environment (COPM).
KEY TERMS
* Fishing vessel: any fishing vessel, whether or not it is owned or operated by the EU.
* Tuna: a species of fish caught by a fishing vessel under the jurisdiction of a Member State and caught in the territorial waters of an EU Member State.
MAIN DOCUMENT
 
Council Regulation (EC), Euratom, Euratom and the European Economic and Social Committee of 29 December 2007 on the Union Fishing Vessel Register and the Agreement relating to: the International Treaty on the Convention on the Protection and Conservation of the Sea (OJ L 348, 30.12.2007, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EU) No 530/2007 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
  (1)
  The United Nations Convention of 10 December 1982 on the Law of the Seas and the agreement for the implementation of that Convention relating on the conservation of the marine environment and the highly migratory fish stocks, and on the Agreement for the Implementation of the Protocol to that Convention, are incorporated in the basic text.
Council Decision 98/392/EC of 8 December 1998 on the approval on behalf of the European Community of the Convention of the United Nations on the protection of the maritime environment and of the internationally recognised wild fauna and flora of the seas and of certain marine species, and repealing Council Regulation (EEC, EC) No 1093/94 and Council Decision 2004/938/EC on the agreement on the international Dolphin Conservation Programme and Council Regulations (EC, EEC, EFTA and EFTA) No 552/2004 and (EC).
last update 04.01.2020



Summary 86:
Agreement between the European Parliament, the Council and the European Commission on cooperation and information-sharing in the field of lawmaking
Agreement with the European Union’s Member States
SUMMARY OF:
Decision (CFSP) 2016/852 — conclusion of the Agreement between the EU’S 3 institutions on cooperation, information-transfer and information sharing in the area of law-making
DecISION (EU) 2017/856 — conclusion, on behalf of the EU, of the agreement between the Commission and the 3 institutions of the European Community on cooperation in the fields of law making, information sharing and cooperation in this field
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE AGREEMENT AND OF THE DECISION?
The agreement aims to improve cooperation between the 3 EU institutions in order to improve the effectiveness of the legislative process and to ensure the smooth functioning of the internal market in the EU.
The decision concludes the agreement with the participation of the Commission.
KEY POINTS
  
The three institutions are committed to:
improving the efficiency and effectiveness of their legislative processes, in particular by:
encouraging the exchange of information and best practices between the institutions;
promoting the effective use of the recasting technique for legal acts;
ensuring the transparency of the legal system;
establishing an independent regulatory framework;
developing a regulatory framework.
Cooperation between the three institutions is based on the following principles:
mutual respect for the independence of the institutions, impartiality and impartiality of the decision-making process;
respect for the rule of law;
timely and transparent sharing of information;
exchange of information.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCELEBRATION
The Agreement entered into force on 1 January 2017.
BACKGROUND
The 3 institutions agree to cooperate in the following the adoption of the Treaty on European Union (TEU).
For more information, see:
European Parliament, Council and Commission (European External Action Service).
KEY TERMS
* Delegated act: an act adopted by the Commission delegated by the EU institutions to one or more of the other institutions.
ACT
Council Decision (EC) No 852/2016/884 of 13.1.2016 on the conclusion, by the Council of the Representatives of the Governments of the Member States and the Commission, of an Agreement on Cooperation, Information Transfer and Information Sharing between the Three Institutions (OJ L 13, 13.2.2016, pp. 1-2)
RELATED ACTS
Council Joint Political Declaration of 27 October 2011 on the establishment of a European Commission work programme and interinstitutional programming (Joint Political Declaration).
last update 14.02.2017



Summary 87:
Citizens’ initiative register — information exchange between the Commission and EU countries on legal acts and citizens’ initiatives (CIRCA)
Citizens' initiative register – information exchange among the Commission, EU countries and citizens
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 596/2004 — information sharing between the European Commission and the European citizens‘ initiative register
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
   
 
It establishes a system for the exchange of information between the EU countries’ competent authorities and the organisers of citizen initiatives* on the legal acts adopted by the European Union (EU).
KEY POINTS
The aim of the regulation is to improve the transparency of the EU’s legal acts.
It allows citizens to directly approach the Commission with a request inviting it to submit a proposal for a legal act of the Union for the purpose of implementing the Treaties similar to the right conferred on the European Parliament under Article 225 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Community (TFEU) and on the Council under Article 241 TFEU.
Organisations of initiatives are required to collect statements of support from EU citizens. These must be submitted in paper or electronic form and must be sent to the competent authorities in the EU country in which the initiative is being organised.
The organisers of initiatives must ensure that the information they collect is accurate, complete and complete. They must also ensure that they respect the confidentiality of personal data and that they do not disclose personal data, such as names, addresses and contact details.
In addition, the organisers must respect the right of the Commission to keep a register of all the information provided by the signatories to the initiative.
Registration of information
The register is maintained by the Commission. It is open to all EU countries, except Denmark, Ireland, Liechtenstein, Norway, Switzerland and the United Kingdom (1).
The Commission is responsible for the operation of the register and for ensuring that it is up-to-date and accurate.
Information exchange between EU countries
EU countries are responsible for:
ensuring that the register is up to date and accurate;
keeping a record of the number of signatories and of the countries in which they are located;
establishing a point of contact which provides information and assistance to the organisers;
providing the organisers with the necessary information to verify the validity and verifications of the statements they have received;
assessing the suitability of the online collection systems for the purposes of this regulation;
checking that the organisers are complying with the requirements of the legislation.
FROM WHEN DOES THE REGUMENT APPLY?

It has applied since 1 January 2005. EU countries had to incorporate it into national law by 1 January 2006.
BACKGROUND
  * KEY TERMS
* Citizen initiative: an initiative by an individual or group of individuals or groups of individuals, organisations or groups to obtain information from the Commission or the EU institutions.
* Legal act: an act adopted by an EU country to implement a Treaty, Convention or other legal instrument of the Community.
ACT
Council Regulation (EU) No 550/2004 of 12 December 2004 on the information exchange system between the Community and its Member States on the implementation of legal acts (OJ L 183, 1.1.2005, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EC, No 550) No 450/2004 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 04.01.2016



Summary 88:
Pesticides and plant growth regulators: statistics on the use of pesticides in the EU
Pesticide pesticides and their use in the European Union (EU)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 — statistics on pesticide use
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out the rules for the collection and transmission of data on the EU’s statistics on pesticides used in the production and use of plant protection products.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to pesticides used for plant protection.
It does not apply to:
pesticides intended for the production or use of food or feedstuffs;
plant protection products intended for use on food or foodstuffs other than food or animal feed;
other products intended to protect plants against disease or pests.
The scope of the regulation is limited to pesticides which are:
plant growth regulators* (PGR1, PGR2 and PGR3);
other plant-growth regulators*;
phytosanitary agents* (e.g. pesticides used to prevent, control or reduce the growth of certain plant diseases and pests);
plant-protection products*; and
molluscicides.
Data collection
EU countries must collect and transmit data on:
the total number of pesticides applied to each selected crop;
the number and types of pesticides used;
a description of the types and quantities of each type of pesticide used.
These data must be collected and transmitted to the European Commission (Eurostat).
Eurostat, the European statistical authority, is responsible for the transmission of the data to Eurostat and for the preparation and dissemination of the results of the statistical analyses.
FROM WHEN DOES IT APPLY?
From 1 January 2010.
BACKGROUND
The European Commission has adopted a number of implementing acts in the field of statistics, including this regulation.
For more information, see:
‘Use of pesticides’ on Eurostat's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Pesticides: any substance used to control, prevent, reduce or control plant diseases or pests, such as nematodes, parasitic and phytoplanktonic diseases, parasitic protozoa, and nematoms.
ACT
Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1079/2009 of 21 October 2009 concerning the placing of pesticides on the market and the statistical collection, transmission and processing of data relating to their use (recast) (OJ L 183, 28.10.2009, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EEC) 2010/939 have been incorporated in the basic text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 14.02.2016



Summary 89:
Protection of human and animal health and the environment from the adverse effects of genetically modified organisms (GMOs) in plants and plant products (Regulation (EC) No 596/2004)
Protection against the adverse effect of genetically modifying organisms (GMIs) in plant and plant-based products
SUMMARY OF:
Delegated Regulation (EU) 2015/849 — plant protection products
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
   
 
It aims to ensure that EU countries’ competent authorities are able to authorise and monitor the safe use of products intended for human or animal health or the environment.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to:
plant protection products* and active substances* intended for use in or on plants or plant products, edible animal products, drinking water or elsewhere in the environment and resulting from the use of a plant protection product, including their metabolites, breakdown or reaction products;
safeners* and synergists* intended to protect the health and safety of humans, animals or plants.
It does not apply to products intended to be used for the production, storage, transport, storage or use of food or feed.
Authorisations are granted by EU countries on the basis of harmonised criteria.
Approval
EU countries must ensure that:
the product meets the following criteria:
it meets the essential safety requirements;
it is safe for human, animal or plant health;
there is no risk to the environment;
the substance has neither an immediate or delayed harmful effect on human health nor an unacceptable effect on the environment, nor is it likely to have an adverse effect on animal health.
If an EU country considers that the product meets all of these criteria, it grants an authorisation.
The application for approval is submitted to the competent authority of the EU country in which the product is to be placed on the market. The competent authority is assisted by the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) and the European Medicines Agency (EMSA).
The competent authority examines the application and decides whether to grant or reject the application. If the application is rejected, it must inform the applicant of the reasons and the reasons for its decision.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULTRY TO ENTRY INTO FORCE?
It entered into force on 1 January 2016. EU countries had to incorporate it into their national law by 1 January 2017.
BACKGROUND
The legislation is part of a package of measures designed to improve the safety of food and feed in the EU.
For more information, see:
‘Plant protection products’ on the European Commission’s website.
* KEY TERMS
* Genetically modified organisms: organisms in which genetic material has been altered within the meaning of Article 2(2) of Directive 2001/18/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 March 2001 on the deliberate release into the environment (see summary).
* Active substance: any substance that has been genetically modified and which has the potential to have a potentially harmful effect.
ACT
  барканска гранка: a substance that is present in, on or in contact with food or foodstuffs, and which is likely to present a risk to human health, the environment or the health of animals, plants or animal products.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Decision No 598/2004/EC
1.1.2016
-
OJ L 347 of 1.12.2004
Amending act(s)
Entry in force
Transposition of the delegated act
1 January 2016
1 February 2016
- The Commission adopts Implementing Decision 2014/856/EU
1 March 2014
1 April 2014
2.2.2014
3.1 2015
4.1 2016
5.1 2017
6.1 2018
7.1 2019
8.1 2020
9.1 2021
10.6.2022
11.7.2023
1 July 2020
1 August 2021
1 October 2022
1 November 2022
2 October 2021
2 November 2021
3 December 2022
3 January 2022
4 February 2022
7 July 2022
8 November 2021 (1 January 2022)
1 December 2021
4 January 2022 (1 February 2022).
RELATED ACTS
Regulation 2014/86/EC (the Plant Protection Products Regulation)
  (the Regulation on the Protection of Human and Animal Health and the Environment)
Directive 91/414/EEC — General provisions relating to the protection of plants and plants-related products against the harmful effects of genetic modification (OJ C 202, 7.8.2001, pp. 1-8)
See consolidated version.
last update 04.01.2016



Summary 90:
Interoperability Information Management Information System (IMI) (until 31 December 2020) (Regulation (EU) 2020/2195) (see summary)
Integrated information management information system (IIMI)
SUMMARY OF:
Implementing Regulation (EC) No 2195/2013 on the establishment of the Information Information Management System (IMI)*
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
  
It sets out the rules for the establishment and operation of the information management system (i.e. IMI)* in the European Union (EU).
It aims to facilitate the exchange of information between EU countries and non-EU countries in order to improve the functioning of the EU’s internal market.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to the use of IMI by EU countries’ competent authorities to:
facilitate the exchange and sharing of information on EU citizens’ movements;
ensure the protection of their personal data;
improve the efficiency and security of the internal market; and
improve consumer protection.
It does not apply to the processing of personal data by the EU countries themselves.
Implementation
Each EU country is responsible for setting up a national IMI coordinator.
The national coordinators are responsible for:
registering IMI users;
designating a central point of contact for each IMI user;
establishing and maintaining an IMI network;
coordinating the information exchange between IMI coordinators;
monitoring the functioning;
providing technical support for IMI;
assisting the Commission in implementing the regulation.
Participation of the Commission
The Commission is assisted by a committee composed of representatives of EU countries, the European Parliament, the Council and the European Economic and Social Committee (EASC) and the Committee on the Functioning of the European System of Central Banks (COSCB).
The European Commission may take part in the decision-making process of the IMI Coordinators.
Rights and obligations of data subjects
Each competent authority must ensure that data subjects can exercise their rights in accordance with the relevant IMI rules, in cooperation with the Commission.
Data subjects have the right to have their data processed and to be informed of the reasons for processing their data, including:
the reasons for the processing;
the nature and content of the processing,
the purpose for processing the data, and
the conditions for their access to the information;
their rights as data subjects, including the right of access to information and to make a request for information.
EU countries must also ensure that:
data subjects have access to their own data processing activities performed by the competent authority under their authority;
they have the rights to access the information they are entitled to receive and to communicate with each other;
information on their rights and obligations is made available to them by means of electronic means;
personal data are stored and processed only where they are necessary to carry out the tasks of the competent authorities;
data subject rights are respected;
participation in IMI is subject to the same conditions as in other EU data protection legislation.
National use
National authorities may use IMI for the following purposes:
exchange of information and information exchange with other EU countries;
exchanges of information, including information on persons and organisations;
transmission of information to the Commission;
implementation of the regulation;
processing of data by IMI actors;
sharing of information with other competent authorities.
FROM WHEN DOES THE REGUMENT APPLY?
Regulation has applied since 1 January 2014.
BACKGROUND
 
 			
The IMI regulation is part of the implementation of the ‘SOLVIT’ initiative, which aims to modernise the EU internal market by establishing a single market information system.
For more information, see:
‘Integrated Information Management Systems’ on the European Commission's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Information management system: a system that allows users to exchange information on their movement, movement of goods and services and the conditions under which such information can be exchanged. It is based on a set of principles, known as the SOLVIT principles, which are set out in the Commission Recommendation of 7 December 2001 on principles for using the Internal Market Problem Solving Network (5): Chapters I and II.
ACT
Commission Decision 2013/856/EU of 12 December 2013 laying down the legal basis for the creation of an Information Management Society (IMSI) (OJ L 165, 14.12.2013, pp. 1-2)
Successive amendments to Decision (EU, Euratom) 2015/939 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 14.01.2020



Summary 91:
Fishing in the Mediterranean and Black Sea: common dolphinfish fishery (GFCM Agreement)
Fisheries in the greater Mediterranean and the Black Sea (GMC Agreement) — common fishing fishery
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 1224/2009 on the common fishing agreement between the EU and its Member States and the countries participating in the GFCM agreement
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to harmonise the rules for fishing in the Great Coasts of the Mediterranean (the Mediterranean, Black Sea and connecting waters) in order to ensure the sustainable management of the common fishery in this area.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to all fishing vessels operating in the area covered by the agreement.
It does not apply to:
fishing vessels that are not covered by this regulation;
fisheries that are engaged in commercial fishing activities outside the agreement’s scope;
vessels used exclusively for recreational purposes.
Authorisations
Fishing vessels authorised to participate in the agreement are granted a fishing authorisation in accordance with Article 7 of Regulation (EU) No 596/2013 and are included in a list containing the name of the vessel and its EU fleet register number, which the EU country concerned must provide to the Commission.
Register of authorised vessels
The Commission is responsible for maintaining a register of all EU-registered fishing vessels.
The register contains the following information:
the name and registered registration number of vessels;
the number of fishing vessels in the vessel is authorised to take part in the fishery;
a list of the countries which have been granted an authorisation and the country in which the fishing vessel is registered
the country of registration
the authorisation number is entered in the register of EU registered fishing vessels and the number of authorised fishing vessels is entered into the register.
Registration of vessels
Vessels registered in the EU are subject to the same rules as those laid down in the common fisheries agreement (CFA Agreement), except for the following exceptions:
small-scale vessels with engine less than 6 metres in length (LOA) with engine.
Small-scale small-scale fishing vessels (LOAs) are not subject to registration and are not required to keep a register;
LOAs that are registered in a non-EU country are covered by a separate regulation, Regulation (Euratom) No 696/2014.
Monitoring
EU countries must take the necessary measures to prohibit fishing, retention on board, transhipment and landing of fish and shellfish caught in the territory of the agreement if they suspect that it is being illegally fished. They must inform the Commission and the International Commission for the Prohibition of Unlawful Trade in Migratory Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (ICPNF) of any such fishing activity.
EU country authorities must ensure that vessels carrying out fishing activities in their territory comply with the rules laid down by the regulation.
If a vessel is found to be fishing in violation of the regulation, it is subject to a prior authorisation issued by the competent authority of an EU country. If the vessel does not comply with this regulation, the vessel may be subject to prior authorisations issued by a country other than that of the one in which it is registered.
Implementing acts
The implementing acts are adopted by the Commission on the basis of a proposal from the European Parliament, the Council and the European Economic and Social Committee. The Commission has the power to adopt delegated acts, subject to certain conditions.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
   
It entered into force on 1 July 2009.
BACKGROUND
 
  * KEY TERMS
* Common fisheries agreement: a multilateral agreement which aims to promote the development, conservation, rational management and best utilisation of living marine resources in Mediterranean and coastal waters. It is based on the principle of sustainable use of marine resources and is designed to ensure that fish stocks are maintained at levels which are considered sustainable and at low risk of collapse.
* GMC Agreement: an international agreement signed between the European Community (now the EU) and the governments of the Member States, the European Free Trade Association (EFTA), the World Trade Organization (WTO), the International Maritime Organization (IMO) and non-member countries of the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) to conserve, conserve and manage the marine environment and the marine ecosystems of the Greater Coasts and Black Seas.
MAIN DOCUMENT
  Ебранска гланка  гарка, гълганна   барна карака and годанца (OJ L 183, 1.7.2009, pp. 1-2)
Successive amendments



Summary 92:
Uniform patent protection within the EU
Uniform application of patents
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EEC) No 596/2012 — creating a European patent with unitary effect
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to ensure that patents granted by the European Patent Office (EPO) are applied uniformly throughout the European Union (EU).
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to patents granted in accordance with Article 143 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European System of Patents (TFTP) (see summary).
It does not apply to:
patents granted by national courts;
pending patent applications;
patent applications that have not yet been granted; and
possessions of intellectual property rights.
It is the first step towards the creation of unitary patent protection in the EU.
Eligibility for EU countries
EU countries are free to decide whether they wish to participate in the implementation of the regulation or not.
The European Commission is assisted by a Select Committee, which is composed of representatives of the participating EU countries and chaired by the High Representative of the Union for Industry, Entrepreneurship and SMEs. The committee is responsible for examining the application for the protection of the patent and assessing the suitability of the application. It is also responsible for the evaluation of the validity of the protection granted under the regulation.
Beneficiaries
The patent holder is the holder of a patent, i.e. a company or individual, which has the intellectual property right to use the patent. The patent in question is protected by a single European patent.
Application for protection
The application for protection is made by an individual or a group of individuals, companies or groups of companies. The application is submitted to the EPO for protection by a person or a collective of individuals or groups. The applicant may apply for protection in one or more EU countries at the same time.
Protection is granted for a period of 10 years from the date on which the application is made. The period of validity is extended for a further 10 years if the applicant wishes to extend the period of protection for a longer period of time. The duration of the extended period is determined by the Commission’s Decision 2014/856/JHA.
Licensing
The protection granted to a patent holder in one EU country does not affect the rights granted to the holder in another EU country. However, it does affect the right of the holder to use a patent in another country.
FROM WHEN DOES THE REGUMENT APPLY?
   
 
It has applied since 1 January 2013.
BACKGROUND
  * KEY TERMS
 * European patent: a patent granted by a national patent office to a company with the aim of ensuring the proper functioning of that patent, consistency of case-law and hence legal certainty, and cost-effectiveness for patent proprietors.
* Unitary patent: the patent is granted by an EPO to a person, company or group of companies with the objective of ensuring that the patent has the same legal effect throughout the EU, irrespective of the EU country in which it is granted.
ACT
Council Regulation (EPC) No 550/2012 of 11 December 2012 laying down the general principles and procedures relating to the creation, application and enforcement of the unitary European patent (OJ L 157, 12.12.2012, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EC) no 550/12 have been incorporated into the basic text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED ACTS
  (1)   The European Commission adopted Regulation (EU) No 852/2014 of 11 March 2014 laying down detailed rules on the application of the Regulation (O J L 157 of 12.6.2014, pp 1-2)
See consolidated version.
last update 04.01.2016



Summary 93:
Ensuring the enforcement of intellectual property rights in the internal market: European Observatory for the Protection of Intellectual Property Rights (OJ L 195, 2.7.2014, pp. 1-2)
Ensuing the enforcement and enforcement of Intellectual property rights: European Organisation for the Prohibition of Transnational Organised Crime (OLPC)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 207/2009 establishing the European Observatory on the Protection and Enforcement of Intellectual Products and Services (OLPP)
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes the EU’s OPP, a centre of excellence on information and data relating to counterfeiting and piracy.
KEY POINTS
Objectives
The OPP is to provide the European Commission with reliable and comparable data on counterfeiting, piracy and the illegal trade in counterfeit goods and services in the EU.
The tasks of the OPP are to:
collect, analyse and disseminate information on infringements of copyright, trademarks, patents, designations, designs, designs and trademarks;
collect and analyse data on the legal status of copyright and trademark applications;
provide the Commission with the information it needs to carry out its tasks;
assist the EU countries in their enforcement and reporting of infringements;
cooperate with the national intellectual property offices in order to share information and best practice.
Tasks
To fulfil its tasks, OLPP is responsible for collecting, analysing and disseminating information on:
counterfeasants’ activities;
illegal trade in counterfeiting* and piracy*;
the illegal trade of counterfeit products and services; and
the illicit trade in intellectual property.
It is also responsible for:
monitoring and analysing counterfeiting;
checking that counterfeiting is being detected;
identifying and prosecuting counterfeiting offences;
sharing information with other EU countries and with the Commission;
carrying out the tasks assigned to it by this regulation;
coordinating with the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAFRIC) and the European Centre for the Suppression of Counterfeiting and Piracy (ECAC);
collecting and sharing information on the activities of the national Intellectual Property Office (IPO);
assisting the Commission in its work with the OLPP;
organising meetings of the Observatory;
preparing a management report for the European Parliament, the Council, the Commission and the Administrative Board of the European Union (Europa).
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
The regulation has applied since 1 March 2010 and had to become law in the Member States by 1 March 2011.
BACKGROUND
The EU has adopted a number of measures to protect intellectual property (IP) rights, including:
Directive 2004/48/EC on intellectual property protection;
Implementing Regulation (EU) 2015/849 on the protection of intellectual assets and their management;
Decision 2014/856/EU on the establishment of OLPC.
For more information, see:
‘Enhancing the enforcement & enforcement of IP rights’ on the OLPC's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Counterfeit and piracy: the practice of counterfeiting or piracy of goods or services.
ACT
Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 709/2009 of 1 March 2009 establishing a European Observatory of the Protection, Enforcement and Investigation of Infringements of Intellectual Product and Services, and repealing Council Regulation (EEC, EC) No 596/2004 (O J L 195 of 2.6.2009, pp 1-3)
RELATED ACTS
Commission Communication of 22 September 2010 on enforcement of the intellectual property right (COM(2010) 799 final of 22.9.2010)
last update 04.11.2015



Summary 94:
International trade in services: protection of the EU’s rights under international trade agreements (trade in services) (Regulation (EU) 2019/1369)
International trade on services: protecting the EU's rights under International trade agreements
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation(EU) No 1369/2013 on the protection of EU rights following dispute settlement in the area of international trade agreement in the field of services
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to ensure the effective exercise of the Union's rights to protect its economic interests in international trade by ensuring that the EU is able to exercise its rights under trade agreements concluded with non-EU countries.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to:
international trade agreements to which the EU has committed itself to applying in its trade with third countries by virtue of its participation in the Agreement establishing the World Trade Organization (WTO);
trade agreements between the EU and non-European Economic Area (EEA) countries;
trade in goods and services between EU countries and the EU as a whole.
It does not apply to bilateral agreements concluded by the EU.
The EU has the right to suspend, modify or repeal any trade concessions or other obligations that it has concluded with a third country or a separate customs territory.
EU countries must ensure the application within their respective territories of the relevant agreements.
In the case of trade in goods, the EU countries must:
ensure that:
the EU's action is aimed at ensuring the maintenance of a substantially equivalent level of concessions, as laid down in the relevant international agreements;
the level of nullification or impairment of the benefits accruing to the EU under the agreement is reduced to a level equivalent to the level set out in the agreement;
a dispute settlement mechanism is in place to find a positive solution to any disputes arising from the dispute.
Where the EU suspends or repeals a trade concession or other obligation, it must inform the European Commission of the reasons for its decision. The Commission must take the input received into account.
FROM WHEN DOES THE REGUMENT APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 January 2014.
BACKGROUND
 
The European Commission has adopted a number of implementing acts under this regulation.
For more information, see:
Trade in services (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* International trade agreement: a trade agreement between a country, a customs territory or a group of countries, including regional or bilateral agreements, which aims to prevent, restrict or restrict imports of goods or services.
* Dispute settlement mechanism: an international dispute resolution mechanism set up by the WTO to settle disputes between the parties to an international agreement.
MAIN DOCUMENT
  Ебранска ганка  грака (Trade in Services Regulation) (OJ L 157, 1.4.2013, pp. 1-2)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 1307/2013 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
  (1)
Regulating (EU), Euratom (EC) No 596/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 on the application of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade in Services (GATT) and amending Council Regulation (EEC), and repealing Council Decision 2006/856/EC (EC), Regulation (CFSP) No 856/2006 and Council Decision 2005/858/EC and Commission Regulation (EC, EC) No 696/2006 (OJC L 347, 12.12.2013)
See consolidated version.
last update 04.01.2020



Summary 95:
Agreement between the EU and Central America on trade in goods and services (Agreement with El Salvador and Guatemala) (OJ L 347, 29.11.2012, pp. 1-8)
Agreement establishing a free trade area between the European Union and Central American countries (Agreements with Central America and Nicaragua)
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE AGREEMENT AND OF THE DECISION?
The agreement establishes an economic and trade agreement between the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe (UNECA) and the governments of El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua and Costa Rica.
The decision approves the agreement on behalf of the EU.
KEY POINTS
The aim of the agreement is to:
contribute to the sustainable development of the economies of Central America;
promote trade and economic integration between the parties;
improve the conditions under which goods can be freely traded;
reduce the social and environmental impact of the trade agreement;
strengthen the protection of the environment and human rights of the Central American people;
facilitate the free movement of goods, services and capital between the signatory countries;
support the development of trade and investment in the region;
provide an appropriate level of protection for Central America’s intellectual property rights, including the right to fair competition and the right of establishment and participation in the internal market;
encourage the participation of the private sector in the economic and social sectors;
ensure that the parties respect the principles of non-discrimination;
cooperate on the principles set out in Article 106 of the Agreement.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCELEBRATION
   
The Agreement entered into force on 11 December 2012.
It has applied since 1 January 2013.
BACKGROUND
The EU-Central America Free Trade Agreement (FTA) is the first free trade agreement concluded between the UNECA and the EU countries. It aims to reduce trade barriers to trade between the 2 parties.
For more information, see:
‘Agreement on trade and trade facilitation’ on the European Commission's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Free trade agreement: an economic agreement between a signatory country and a non-EU country.
MAIN DOCUMENTS
Council Decision (EU) 2015/852/EU of 11 December 2015 on the conclusion of the Free Trade Area Agreement between the Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Federative Republics of Costa Rica, Nicaragua, Honduras and El Salvador on the other part.
Decision 2013/856/EU/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 November 2013 on the signature and provisional application of the Framework Agreement on Trade in Goods and Services between the Community and the Governments of the Member States of the One part, with the Republic of Nicaragua, Guatemala and Honduras.
RELATED ACTS
Regulation (EC) No 20/2013/EU establishing a framework for the conclusion, by the Council and the Commission, of an Economic and Trade Agreement on Free Trade and Cooperation between the Republics and the European Economic Community, with certain Specific Provisions relating to the Union's participation in this Agreement, and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 596/2006 (OCT) No 652/2006).
Council Regulation (Euratom) 2017/849 of 27 February 2017 establishing a Framework Agreement for the Free movement of Goods and services between the Member State of the Union, of its one part and the Republic and the Union of Costa Rico, of which the latter is a party, and of which is a member, and on which the Union has an exclusive right to participate.
last update 14.02.2017



Summary 96:
Creditors’ rights in cases of over-preservation of bank accounts in another EU country — preservation order (OPPO) (European Union)
Crediting parties in civil and commercial matters must be able to obtain a ‘preservation order’ in the event that their bank account in one EU country has been preserved by a creditor in another.
ACT
Council Regulation (EEC) No 596/2006 of 25 June 2006 on the application for a preservation order in civil matters in the Member States
SUMMARY
WHAT DOES THIS REGULATION DO?
The regulation allows a creditor to obtain an ‘OPPO’ (in personam order) in the case of a bank account which has been overpreserved by a debtor.
KEY POINTS
The creditor is required to notify the creditor of any overpreservation in the bank account of the amount of the preserved funds. The creditor must provide the creditor with all the necessary information, including:
a copy of the original bank account;
a list of all the banks concerned;
the name and address of the creditor and the creditor’s representative in the other EU country;
documents relating to the preservation order;
an explanation of the reasons for the preservation of the funds;
proof that the bank is solvent and that the funds are not being used for the purpose for which the order has been granted;
evidence of the existence of the bank and the identity of the person or bodies responsible for its preservation.
The order is valid for 30 days from the date of entry into force.
If the creditor is unable to provide all the information required to obtain the order, he/she must submit a request for the release to the competent authority of the EU country of enforcement. The request must contain the following information:
the bank account number and the name of the persons or companies responsible for preserving the funds,
the date and place of establishment of the account and the number of persons responsible for maintaining that bank account,
a description of the nature and nature of the security and the reason for preserving it, and
the amount of money preserved.
Where the creditor does not comply with the above conditions, the creditor may apply for an “opPO” in the following cases:
where the creditor has not complied with the conditions laid down in the regulation:
implemented the conditions set out in the annex to the regulation;
obtained the order by means of an advisory procedure adopted by the European Court of Justice;
in the event the creditor fails to comply with these conditions, he or she has the right to apply for a court order in the same EU country.
In such cases, the court will issue its decision without delay once it has received the information provided by the creditor, provided that any security required has been provided by that creditor by that time.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
Regulation (EU) 2016/856 has applied since 1 July 2016.
BACKGROUND
   
 
The European Commission has adopted a number of measures to improve judicial cooperation in cross-border civil matters.
For more information, see:
‘Cross-border judicial cooperation’ on the European Commission's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Preservation order: an order issued by a court to prevent or restrict the preservation or withdrawal of funds from a bank.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force: Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition into force
Official Journal
Decision No 598/2006/EC
1.7.2006
-
OJ L 165 of 1.7 July 2006
Amending act(s)
Entry in force:
Entry Date:
1 July 2016
1 August 2016
- The date of application for the adoption and application of Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2018/858
1 September 2018
- the date on which the Commission adopts Regulation (EC) 2017/852
1 October 2018
1 January 2019
1 February 2020
1 March 2020
- Decision No 594/2014
1 April 2020
Obligations concerning the exercise of the right of access to the Bank Account of the Bank of the European Union (BANK Account)
1 June 2020
2 July 2020
3 July 2020 (1 August 2020).
1 May 2021
1 November 2021
2 June 2021
3 September 2021
4 July 2021
5 July 2021 (1 October 2021).
RELATED ACTS
Communication from the Commission to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions: A European Union framework for judicial cooperation (COM(2014) 696 final - Not published in the Official Journal).
Commission communication on the implementation and application by the Commission of the Regulation on the Application for a Preservation Order in Civil and Commercial Matters in the Community (COM



Summary 97:
European Border Surveillance System (Eurosur) — common rules for joint border surveillance and maritime operations (2014-2020) (SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 1052/2013 establishing the Eurosur border surveillance system
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes common EU-wide rules for the joint operation, pilot project or rapid intervention of EU countries and the European Border and Coast Guard Agency (EBSA) to prevent illegal border crossings, to counter cross-border criminality and to apprehend or take other measures against those persons who have crossed the border in an irregular manner.
KEY POINTS
The regulation sets out the rules for Eurosur, a joint surveillance system between the EU countries, the EBSA and the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR).
Eurosur is designed to prevent and combat illegal border crossing by means of joint operations, including:
interception, rescue at sea and disembarkation of suspected illegal immigrants and non-EU nationals;
the exchange of information between EU countries’ border surveillance units;
joint operation planning;
coordination with the International Coordination Centre (ICC) of the International Maritime Organization (IMO).
Participation in Eurosur
Each participating unit must include at least one person with basic first aid training.
Each EU country’s national border surveillance unit is responsible for:
collecting and reporting information about any vessel suspected of being engaged in illegal activities at sea, which are outside the scope of Eurosur;
carrying out joint operations;
operating in the contiguous zone of an EU country;
sharing information on the relevant jurisdiction and legislation in the geographical area where the operation takes place;
participating in a joint operation or pilot project, including references to EU and international law regarding interception, rescue, and rapid intervention;
ensuring that the operational plan is approved by the national authorities of the EU country in which the operation is taking place.
Participating units must:
ensure that:
the information they collect and transmit to the ICC is accurate and up-to-date;
identify the nationality of the vessel and its flag;
cooperate in the event of a vessel being found to be in danger of sinking;
notify the identity of the person or persons on board the vessel;
assess whether the vessel is capable of operating on the high seas;
use all available means of communication, including radio and satellite communication, to communicate with each other and with other EU countries;
take all necessary measures to ensure the safety and security of persons and property on board.
The measures must not exceed what is necessary to achieve the objectives of this regulation.
EU countries may not:
take measures to prevent, detect, search or rescue persons or vessels on board a vessel which is suspected of having committed an act of illegal immigration;
interfere with the activities of vessels operating in the territorial waters of a Member State that is not participating in the sea operation without the authorisation of that Member State.
If a vessel is found in danger, it must be brought to the attention of the competent authority of the Member State in which it is operating.
Interception on the High Seas
The following measures may be taken:
when:
information has been received indicating that the operating efficiency of a person or vessel is impaired, but not to the extent that a distress situation is likely;
a vessel is in danger;
an individual or a group of persons has been identified as being involved in an illegal immigration activity;
there is reason to believe that the vessel may be carrying out illegal immigration activities.
Rescue at sea
If:
a person or a vessel has been found in a danger, but is not in a state of distress;
it is likely that a vessel will not be able to operate in the area where it is located;
information on the identity and nationality of a persons or vessel on board has been obtained;
in the event that a person has been declared missing or is presumed to be missing or presumed to have been lost or presumed lost;
if the vessel has not been found.
In addition, the Member States may take measures to:
prevent, detect and rescue persons and vessels which are likely to be involved in illegal immigration or illegal migration activities;
conclude a search and rescue operation;
decide on the number of persons to be rescued;
arbitrate a vessel if it is likely to sink or to be lost or to become lost.
Coordination between the participating units
The participating units:
are responsible for the coordination and coordination of the operational plans;
are assisted by:
an Interpol representative;
representatives of the Agency, including the Coordinating Officer of the IMO, and
the representatives of the European Commission, the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, the Commission and the Council.
FROM WHEN



Summary 98:
Funding of EU countries’ migration and asylum policies
Finance for migration & asylum policy
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 596/2013 — common rules for the financing of EU Member States’ national programmes
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out common rules on the funding of national programmes for the management and control of migration and migration policy in the European Union (EU).
It aims to reduce the administrative burden for beneficiaries, the EU countries and the European Commission.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to all EU countries, except Denmark, Ireland and the United Kingdom (1), which are covered by specific regulations.
It does not apply to the EU’s common asylum policy.
EU countries are responsible for managing their national programmes on their own.
The European Commission is responsible for implementing the regulation and the specific regulations, and for ensuring that they are implemented correctly.
Beneficiaries are the EU citizens and the EU institutions, such as the European Social Fund, the European Investment Bank (ESF), the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) and the Cohesion Fund.
FROM WHEN DOES THE REGUMENT APPLY?
   
 
It has applied since 1 January 2014.
BACKGROUND
  (European Commission)
KEY TERMS
* Migration and asylum policy: a common approach to questions arising from the pressure of migration, asylum and asylum applications and regarding the management of the external borders of the EU.
MAIN DOCUMENT
EU funding for national programmes:
Council Regulation (EU) No 529/2013/Euratom
WHAT DOES THIS REGULAMENDMENT DO?
The Regulation lays down common rules to support the implementation of EU programmes.
This regulation is one of a series of delegated acts adopted by the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission to implement Regulation (EC) No 659/1999 of 22 March 1999 on the application of Article 108 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Community (TFEC) (see summary).
The other delegated acts are:
Delegated acts:
Decision 2014/856/EU — the date on which the regulation entered into force;
Decisions 2014/966/EU and 2014/1169/EU on the date of entry into force of the delegated acts;
Regulations (EU), Euratom and Euratom — the dates on which these regulations entered into effect;
Commission Implementing Decision 2014/1069/EC — the year on which this regulation came into force.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force — Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Commission Delegated Regulation (EUR) No 966/2012
1.1.2014
-
OJ L 183 of 1.7.2014, pp. 1-8
Amending act(s)
Entry INTO FORCE:
Date of application:
1 January 2014
- (1) The Member States apply the regulation from 1 January 2015.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
Council Decision (EU/EU) 2015/858/EU of 25 November 2015 on the annual pre-financing of EU funding for EU countries in the field of Migration and Asylum policy (OJ C 202, 1.12.2015, pp 1-2)
Commission implementing Decision 2013/865/EU (EU-EU) 2016/859/EC of 27 November 2013 laying down detailed rules for pre-finance of the general budget of the Union in relation to the common asylum and immigration policy and repealing Council Regulation (CFSP) No 859/2013 (OJC L 183, 1 January 2016, pp 3-5)
Regulating (EU)(EU) 2017/849/EU laying down specific rules for specific measures for the general budgetary framework of the common migration policy and for the Common Asylum and Migration Policy (COM(2017) 796 final, 7.11.2017)
See consolidated version.
last update 04.01.2018



Summary 99:
European return Fund for the period 2008-2013
European return fund
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 514/2014 establishing the European return fund for the year 2008 to 2013
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets up the European Return Fund (ERF), the main instrument of the general programme ‘Solidarity and Management of Migration Flows’.
It aims to provide financial support to EU countries to ensure the adequate management of inflows of persons applying for asylum or other forms of international protection.
KEY POINTS
The ERF is funded by the general budget of the European Union (EU).
The EU countries are responsible for:
reception and asylum systems;
transfer of asylum-seekers to other EU countries;
assistance to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR);
monitoring and evaluation of the Fund’s implementation.
The EAF is funded in line with Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 1269/2013, which sets up a common asylum and migration policy framework.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
 
   
The regulation entered into force on 1 January 2015.
BACKGROUND
The European Council of 2 December 2009 recognised that financial resources within the EU should be made increasingly flexible and coherent, in terms of both scope and applicability, in order to support policy developments in the field of immigration and asylum.
For more information, see:
‘The EU’ on the European Commission's website.
*
KEY TERMS
* Asylum and Migration policy framework:
MAIN DOCUMENT
  (1)
  The regulation sets out the rules for the establishment and operation of the EAF, as well as the specific actions to be undertaken by EU countries under the general Programme ‘solidarity and management of migration flows’ (2008-2013) (OJ L 183, 1.1.2015, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to the regulation have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Decision No 575/2007/EC
1.12.2007
-
OJ C 140 of 23.6.2007 establishing the ‘European Return Fund [Official Journal L 144 of 6.7.2007].
RELATED DOCUMENTS
 			
Regulations (EC) No 1169/2012/EU
2.4.2012
3.5.2013
4.5/2014
5.6/2015
6.8.2015
7.9.2016
8.8/2016
9.9/2017
10.10.2017
11.12/2018
12.5
2020
1 of the following is excluded from the scope of the regulation:
the establishment of the common asylum policy framework;
the creation of a common European asylum system;
a common European migration policy;
measures to be taken by the Commission to implement the general migration policy.
last update 14.01.2015



Summary 100:
Protecting people and goods against transnational threats: enhanced actions in the fight against organised crime
Protecting citizens and goods from transnational risks: enhanced action in the field of crime
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 514/2014 — enhanced actions at EU level to combat organised crime, corruption and money laundering
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to improve cooperation between EU countries’ law enforcement authorities in order to combat transnational crime and corruption.
It sets up an enhanced action fund to support the work carried out by EU countries.
KEY POINTS
The Regulation sets out the eligibility criteria for actions to be supported under the enhanced action framework. Actions are eligible for funding under the Regulation.
The actions supported are those that:
contribute to the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of crime;
promote cooperation between law enforcement and judicial authorities;
improve cooperation between national law enforcement agencies;
support the training of law enforcement officials;
encourage the use of new technologies, transnational projects, networking and exchange of best practices, monitoring of the implementation of relevant EU law and Union policies and actions in relation to and in non-EU countries; and
support cooperation between the European External Action Service (EEAS) and the European Commission.
Eligible actions
The European Commission and the EU countries, together with the EAS, must ensure coordination as regards actions in and in the EU’s external action area. Actions supported under this Regulation are based on the priorities identified in the Regulation (i.e. in line with the General Programme on Security and Safeguarding Liberties, the Specific Programme ‘Prevention of and fight against crime’, and the specific programme for the period 2014-2020 (see summary).
The EAS and the Commission are responsible for:
coordinating the actions supported;
monitoring the implementation;
assessing the effectiveness of the actions;
providing emergency assistance in the event of an emergency;
exchanging best practice and best practice;
identifying areas of cooperation where cooperation needs to be strengthened.
In addition, the EEA and EU countries are required to provide the Commission with information on:
the types of actions eligible under the regulation;
the number of EU countries that are eligible to benefit from the funding;
a list of eligible actions in each EU country.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
The regulation entered into force on 1 January 2015.
BACKGROUND
The fight against cross-border crime is one of the main challenges facing the European Union (EU). It is also essential to protect the economic and social interests of the EU and its citizens.
For more information, see:
‘Fight against crime: enhanced EU action’ on the Commission's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Transnational crime: any illegal activity that takes place outside the EU.
ACT
Council Regulation (EU), Euratom, Euratom and the Council of 11 December 2014 on enhanced actions to combat crime, fraud and corruption (OJ L 183, 12.12.2014, pp. 1-8)
RELATED ACTS
Regulations (EU, Eurat) No 609/2014 and (EU/EC) No 1212/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the European Regional Development Fund and on the Common European Anti-Fraud Office and repealing Council Regulation (EC) 2015/852 (O J L 347, 28.11.2014)
Regulating (EU)(EU) 2017/1369 of the General Assembly and of Council of 26 February 2017 on the protection of the health and safety of persons and of goods against fraud and abuse of power and amending Regulation (Euratom) No 1082/2013 (OJR L 347 of 28.2.2017, pp 1-2)
See consolidated version.
last update 04.01.2019



Summary 101:
Non-sustainable fishing in the marine environment: EU action plan against non-EU countries
Non-Sustainable fishing within the European Union
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) 2019/849 — EU action to combat non-sustainability in the fishing of certain species of fish
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
 
It aims to ensure that the EU’s common fisheries policy (CFP) is applied in the field of marine conservation and sustainable fishing.
KEY POINTS
The regulation lays down the rules for the identification of countries that are not complying with the CFP and the measures that may be taken against them.
It does not apply to non-member countries of the European Economic Area (EEA).
The European Commission is empowered to adopt implementing acts in the event of non-compliance with the regulation.
The Commission is assisted by a committee composed of representatives of the EU countries and the European Environment Agency.
National authorities must notify the Commission of any country that is identified as a non-signatory to this regulation. The Commission must inform the European Parliament and the Council of the reasons for this identification and the possible measures that could be taken in relation to it.
If the Commission considers that a country is not a signatory to the regulation, it may adopt an implementing act in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 8(2) of Regulation (EC) No 101037/2013.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULTRY APPLY?
It has applied since 1 July 2019.
BACKGROUND
The CFP was adopted by the European Commission on 1 July 2018.
For more information, see:
Fisheries (European Commission).
* KEY TERMS
* Non-Sustainability: the ability of a stock of fish to replenish itself with high probability while allowing high yield fisheries on it;
Sustainable: the boundaries of the size of the stock within which the stock can be replenished.
* Sustainable fishing: fishing that is not sustainable in the context of the conservation and management of living marine resources.
MAIN DOCUMENT
   
Council Regulation (EEC) 2018/848 of 12 July 2018 on the application of the Common Fisheries Policy Regulation (CFSPR) (OJ C 202, 1.7.2018, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (ESPR) No 848/2018 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
  (1)
Regulations (EC, Euratom) No 1099/2013 and (EC), Euratom (EC and Euratom Implementing Regulation (C) No 1169/2013 of the Council and of the Commission on the implementation of the common fisheries programme (OCT) (Codification Regulation (EU, Euram) No 596/2013) and amending Council Regulations (Euratom) 2015/856 and (EURatom) 2016/852 (O J L 347, 31.12.2013, pp 1-2)
See consolidated version.
last update 04.01.2019



Summary 102:
Investment agreements between EU countries and non-EU countries (Bilateral Investment Agreements)
Investment agreement agreements between the EU and third countries (FDI)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EEC) No 596/2009 on bilateral investment agreements
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It lays down the conditions under which EU countries are empowered to amend or conclude Bilateral investment agreements (BIs) with non-European Economic Area (EEA) countries.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to all EU countries except Denmark, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway, Switzerland and the United Kingdom (1).
It does not apply to investment agreements concluded before 9 January 2013.
Amending or concluding a bilateral investment agreement
An EU country is authorised to enter into negotiations with a third country to amend an existing or to conclude a new BIs. It must notify the European Commission of its intention to do so within 90 days of receiving a notification from the other party.
The Commission is assisted by the Commission’s Committee for Investment Agreement, which is composed of representatives of the EU countries, the European Investment Bank (EIB) and the European Free Trade Association (EFTA) and is responsible for the implementation of the regulation.
In the event that the Commission finds that the negotiations have not resulted in an agreement which fulfils the requirements of this regulation, it may authorise the EU country to sign and conclude such an agreement. The agreement must include a copy of the agreement.
Participation of the Commission in negotiations
In negotiations, the Commission is kept informed of the progress and results of the negotiations and may request to participate in the negotiations throughout the different stages and may also request to be involved in the discussions concerning investment.
Authorisation to sign or conclude a BIs
A BIs must be amended or concluded in accordance with the conditions laid down in this regulation. If the agreement does not meet these conditions, the agreement may be terminated.
If an EU country decides to terminate an existing BIs, it must inform the Commission of the reasons for its decision. The Commission must take its decision within 30 days of receipt of the notification.
Where the Commission considers that an amendment or a new agreement is not necessary, it will consult the European Economic and Social Committee (EESC) and, if necessary, the Committee for Economic and Financial Affairs (EASA).
The EESC will report to the European Parliament and the Council on the outcome of the consultations and will adopt a recommendation on the basis of this report.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
The BIs entered into force on 9 January 2012.
BACKGROUND
The EU has exclusive competence with respect to the common commercial policy of the EEA (see summary).
For more information, see:
‘Bilateral investment agreement’ (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Investment agreement: a bilateral agreement between a country and another EU country concerning investment between the two parties.
* FDI agreement: an investment agreement between 2 or more EU countries on the one hand, and between a company or a group of companies on the other.
ACT
Council Regulation (EU) No 550/2009 of 9 January 2009 laying down conditions for the amendment or conclusion, on behalf of the European Union, of a bilateral Investment Agreement between a Member State and a third party (OJ L 157, 9.5.2009, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EC) no 596 / 2009 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED ACTS
Regulations (EC, Euratom) No 1296/2008 and (EC), Euratom No 1297/2008 of the Council and of the Representatives of the Governments of the Member States meeting within the Council of 11 December 2008 on the exercise of the exclusive competence of the Union with regard to investment and on the application of Article 3(1)(e) of the Treaty on European Union (TFEU) (Official Journal C 202, 29.12.2008, pp.).
last update 11.01.2016



Summary 103:
Reduced customs duties on imports of certain agricultural products from non-EU countries — Common Customs Tariff Scheme
Reduced Customs duties on imported agricultural products — Joint Customs Tariffs Scheme
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 596/2006 — Common customs tariff scheme
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to reduce certain import duties on agricultural products imported into the EU by reducing them by up to 30 %.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to imports of agricultural products originating outside the EU.
It does not apply to certain products originating in the EU, such as fruit, vegetables, meat, eggs, milk, honey, honeycomb, cheese, fruit juices and honeycomb.
Importers must inform the European Commission of the products they intend to import.
The Commission, in close cooperation with EU countries, monitors the imports of products falling under Combined Nomenclature codes 0603, 0803 90 10, 1006, 1604 14, 1806 10 90, 2002 90, 2103 20, 2106 90 59, 2107 90 98, 6403, 2207 10 00, 2208 20 00, 2909 19 10, 3814 00 90, 3820 00 00 and 3824 90 97, in order to determine whether the conditions referred to in Articles 22, 29 and 30 of the regulation are fulfilled.
If the facts as finally established show that the conditions set out in this regulation are met, the Commission will adopt an implementing act to reintroduce the common customs tariff duties in accordance with Article 39(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULATIONS APPLYEARLY ENTRY INTO FORCEUMENT
   
 
It entered into force on 1 January 2007.
BACKGROUND
  (1)
  The European Commission is responsible for the implementation of the Common Customs tariff scheme.
ACT
 			  	 
Council Regulation (EU) No 686/2006 of 12 December 2006 laying down common customs tariffs on imports into the Union (OJ L 183, 1.1.2007, pp. 1-12)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EEC) no 686 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED ACTS
  [Official Journal L 347 of 28.12.2006].
Regulations (EC, Euratom) No 1282/2006 and (EC), No 1283/2006 have been repealed and replaced by Regulations (Euratom) 2019/2111 and (EU), 2019/3111.
last update 04.01.2021



Summary 104:
Exports of firearms, their parts and essential components and ammunition: export control and control measures
Export controls and controls measures
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 596/2005 on the export control of firearms and their parts, their components, ammunition and ammunition
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to prevent, combat and eradicate the illicit manufacture, import and export of firearms.
It lays down the rules on export authorisation, customs formalities and controls and import and transit measures.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to the export of:
firearms;
firearm parts and components;
essential components or ammunition;
ammunition.
Authorisation
EU countries must ensure that:
the exporter of the items concerned has the necessary authorisation to export them;
the person who has the power to determine the sending of the item out of the customs territory of the EU has the authority to grant the authorisation;
authorisations are issued by the competent customs authority of an EU country and are valid for a period of 5 years.
The exporter must notify the customs authority in the EU country of which the item is to be exported. The exporter is required to provide proof that the export has been authorised by the customs office in the country of destination.
Exporters must inform the customs authorities of the country in which the export is to which they intend to send the item.
When granting export authorisations, the exporters must indicate the nature of the export and the name and address of the person who is responsible for the export authorising the export.
Export authorisation forms must be clearly visible and clearly on the form.
If an exporter fails to provide the required information, EU countries must take all necessary measures to ensure that the exporter’s name, address and contact details are clearly visible.
Importers are required to notify the competent authorities of their country of transit within 30 days of receiving a request for no objection to the transit of an item. In exceptional circumstances and for duly justified reasons, that period may be extended to 30 days from the day of the written request.
Where the customs official of the non-EU country in question has no objection, the consignee must submit a written request to the consul-general of that country for the approval of the transit. The consul general of the consular country may refuse to approve the transit if it considers that the consignment does not comply with the export conditions laid down in the regulation.
In exceptional circumstances, a consul may refuse the transit in the absence of a consular declaration of no objection. However, in such cases, the competent authority may grant the transit without prejudice to the conditions set out in the export declaration.
Controls
The competent authorities in EU countries are responsible for:
implementing the control measures laid down by the regulation;
monitoring and controlling the movement of firearms;
ensuring that firearms are not trafficked illegally within the EU;
taking all appropriate measures to prevent and combat the illicit trade in firearms and related products.
Penalties
The European Commission has adopted a list of penalties applicable to infringements of this regulation. These include:
effective, proportionate and dissuasive penalties for infringements;
a ban on the sale, import or export of certain firearms and certain parts and accessories;
restrictions on the supply of certain arms and ammunition to persons involved in the illegal trade;
suspension or withdrawal of the right to possess, manufacture, export, import, export or transfer of firearms or related products;
preventing, limiting or limiting the sale of certain ammunition and parts;
ban on the import of certain parts, accessories and ammunition intended for use in criminal activities;
prohibitions on the transfer of certain articles intended for the use of criminal offences.
FROM WHEN DOES THE REGUMENT APPLY?
 
    баканска ганка  гранданна кародна, гълара бракса варка and глагарна  ханъкабанта даника (OJ L 347, 30.12.2005, pp. 1-2)
Amending act(s)
Entry into force
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Council Regulation (EU) 2015/856
1.1.2015
-
OJ C 202, 1.7.2015, pp 1-3)
RELATED ACTS
  Бананглюшкасна (Official Journal L 183, 29.6.



Summary 105:
Identifying, preventing and combating illegal immigration and cross-border crime at the external borders of the European Union (EUROSUR)
Identifying and combating illegally entering and staying at the EU’s external borders (Eurosur)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 596/2008 — strengthening situational awareness and reaction capability at the internal borders of EU countries
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes the European Border and Coast Guard Agency (EBRCA).
It aims to improve situational awareness* and reaction capabilities of national border control authorities to detect, prevent and combat illegal immigration.
KEY POINTS
The regulation provides for the establishment of a common pre-frontier intelligence picture to be shared between EU countries’ competent authorities and the EBRCA.
The common intelligence picture may contain information which is relevant for air border surveillance and checks at external border crossing points.
EU countries are required to establish a national coordination centre which is responsible for:
sharing information on all incidents at their external borders;
coordinating with each other and with the Agency;
sharing the information required to detect and prevent illegal immigration;
assessing the impact of incidents on border security;
collecting and disseminating information on incidents at the border;
exchanging information on the causes and consequences of incidents;
ensuring that information is shared with other EU countries and the Agency.
National coordination centre
The national coordination centres must operate twenty-four hours a day and seven days a week.
All incidents are shared with the agency, including:
information on the origin and destination of migrants;
data on the number of asylum applications;
the number of illegal immigrants and asylum seekers;
information about the number and nature of illegal border crossings;
a common border surveillance picture.
Information exchange
The Agency is required to exchange, process and store non-classified sensitive and classified information in the communication network in accordance with Article 11d of Regulation (EU) 2016/977/JHA and the relevant national provisions on data protection.
It is also required to:
ensure that information exchanged between the Agency and EU countries is protected by the principle of non-refoulement;
provide the Agency with the appropriate financial and human resources to adequately fulfil the additional tasks assigned to it under this regulation.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
The Regulation has applied since 1 January 2009.
BACKGROUND
EurOSUR is the common EU border control system for the protection and saving of the lives of migrants.
For more information, see:
External borders (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* External borders: the external border of an EU country where there is no official border with another EU country.
* Illegal immigration: illegal immigration by land, sea or air.
ACT
Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 550/2008 of 27 December 2008 establishing a common framework for the identification, prevention and control of illegal immigration, and of illegal crossing of the borders between the Member States of the Union (‘External borders’)
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member State
Official Journal
Decision 2008/596/EC
1.1.2009
-
OJ L 183 of 1.1-1.2010
RELATED ACTS
Council Framework Decision 2008/972/EC of 27 June 2008 on the establishment, on behalf of the Community, of a Community Border Control Agency for the Protection and Safety of Migrants at the External Borders (Official Journal C 202 of 28.7.2008).
Council Decision 2008-974/EC on the strengthening of cooperation between Member States in the field of border control at the Community's external borders, and repealing Council Regulation (EEC, EC) No 696/2004 (Official JHA).
Last updated: 27.08.2008



Summary 106:
Exchange of fingerprints between EU countries for the purposes of criminal investigations and criminal justice (Eurodac) (recast)
Exexchange of fingerprint profiles between the European Union (EU) and non-EU countries (EuroDac)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EEC) No 596/2008 on the exchange of fingerprints and other data between the Member States and Eurodac
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to improve the sharing of fingerprints* and other information between the EU countries in order to prevent and combat crime.
KEY POINTS
The regulation sets out the rules for the use of fingerprint data in criminal investigations.
The European Commission is responsible for the implementation of the regulation. It is assisted by the European Data Protection Supervisor (EDPS) and the European Central Bank (ECB).
The purpose of this regulation is to:
ensure that fingerprints are used only for criminal investigations;
facilitate the exchange and sharing of personal data; and
improve the security of the information exchanged.
In order to facilitate this exchange of data, the European Commission and the EDP are responsible for:
establishing a central system for the processing of fingerprints;
ensuring the security and integrity of the Central System;
providing the competent national authorities with the necessary information to carry out the tasks assigned to them by the regulation;
implementing the necessary technical and organisational measures to ensure the proper functioning of the central system;
developing and implementing the necessary security measures to prevent, detect and combat the risks associated with the processing and transmission of fingerprints, as well as to identify the persons responsible for these risks.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 January 2009.
BACKGROUND
 
  ‘The Hague Programme’ is the framework for the improvement of access to existing data filing systems in the EU.
For more information, see:
‘Exchanges of fingerprints’ on the Europol website.
* KEY TERMS
* Fingerprint: the fingerprint of a person or a person’s hand or face, which is used to identify a person, place or place of residence, or to identify goods, services or persons, in particular for the purpose of identifying a criminal or a criminal organisation, such as the police, customs or other law enforcement authorities, or for criminal justice purposes.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member State
Official Journal
Decision 2008/615/JHA
1.1.2009
-
OJ L 347 of 1.12.2008, pp. 1-8
Amending act(s)
Entry INTO FORCE
Transposition into force: Date of expiry
Expiry date
Expiration date
Date of application
Date for application
Exemption from transposition: Expiry Date
Dateof application
Not applicable
Application date
Not valid
Exemptions from the application of the application date
The application date is extended until the date on which the application for the extension of the period of validity is due to expire.
Exclusions from the applicability of the applicable application date are:
expiry dates for the period from the date of application of Regulation (EC) 2017/852 (see summary);
the period from which the applicant is no longer considered a threat to public order or security;
the periods of time between the expiry date and the date when the applicant becomes a national of an EU country.
Amendments to Regulation (EEU) No 529/2008
The Regulation has been amended several times. The most recent amendment was adopted in 2018.
last update 04.11.2018



Summary 107:
Registered names of designations of origin and geographical indications and traditional specialities guaranteed (until 31 December 2020)
Regulation (EU) 2020/856 — registered names of designs of origin, designations and protected geographical indications (until 1 January 2021)
SUMMARY
WHAT DOES THIS REGULATION DO?
It sets out rules on the registration and use of trade marks, trade marks* and designations* of origin* in the European Union (EU).
It aims to ensure the protection of traditional speciality* products and to improve the visibility of these products on the market.
KEY POINTS
Trade marks
The regulation sets out the conditions for the registration of trademarks and trade marks.
Trademarks are those which are used to mark products, such as:
traditional specialities* guaranteed*,
prepared meals*,
beer,
chocolate and derived products,
bread, pastry, cakes, confectionery, biscuits and other baker’s wares,
beverages made from plant extracts,
pasta,
salt.
Protected geographical indications are those that are protected by EU countries’ laws, regulations or administrative acts.
Registered names
The registered name of a protected geographical indication (PGI) must be used to describe a product which is produced or marketed in an EU country and which is protected by a protected name of origin.
The protected name must be accompanied by:
a geographical indication,
a trade mark,
an indication of the place of origin of the product,
the name of the producer or the place where the product is produced, marketed or intended to be marketed, and
a description of the geographical indications of the protected name.
A protected name is also protected if:
it is used in the context of the production, presentation or sale of products intended for sale in the EU country in which it is registered;
the protected name has been used for more than 10 years;
it has not been used in more than 5 years in the same EU country;
a protected name does not appear on a product other than in the product itself.
Traditional speciality guaranteed
The protection of a product is guaranteed if the following conditions are met:
the product is not intended for direct sale in another EU country,
it does not originate from a non-EU country and does not have a geographical origin;
in the case of prepared meals, the name is protected if it is:
originated in the country of origin; or
originating in a country other than that of the country where it is produced;
produced or marketed by a person or business established in that country.
In addition, the product must be guaranteed if it:
is:
made or produced in the territory of the EU;
consists of products originating or produced by EU farmers and producers;
has not been marketed in the territories of any other EU country (except in certain circumstances); or
is not intended or intended for the consumption of persons outside the EU.
EU countries may exclude from the scope of the regulation certain products which are protected under national law, regulations, administrative acts or administrative rules.
Trade mark protection
The European Commission is empowered to adopt delegated acts, in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 552/2006, laying down the conditions of use for trade marks and protecting geographical indications. The Commission may also adopt implementing acts laying down derogations from these conditions.
Exceptions
The Commission is also empowered to take into account natural constraints affecting agricultural production in mountain areas, in order to take account of natural constraints relating to the use of mountain areas.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
 
    данскаганка гара барка  бълакована кака,
баланца Бакканна  хакса варнак,
какчакна (кашка),
кша накраква йкалка (начка) and
куккънабка(на) (traditional specialties guaranteed).
BACKGROUND
The EU has adopted a number of measures to protect traditional and protected products.
For more information, see:
Protection of traditional products (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Trade mark: a trademark or trade mark used to identify a product.
* Protected geographical indication: an indication of a place where a geographical or a national origin is indicated.
MAIN DOCUMENT
  годнанграндка: a protected



Summary 108:
An accelerated phasing-in scheme for the application of the double-hull or equivalent design requirements of MARPOL to single-Hull oil tankers (until 20 July 2012)
An accelerated phase-out scheme for applying MARPOL (see summary)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EEC) No 596/2010 — an accelerated phase out scheme for application of certain maritime safety and pollution prevention requirements of the International Maritime Organization’s Convention on the Law of the Sea (MARPOL)
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out a scheme to reduce the risk of oil spills in the European Union (EU) by reducing the number of oil tanker trips to and from EU ports.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to the following categories:
Category 1: crude oil tanker;
Category 2: oil tanker carrying heavy grade oil, irrespective of its flag.
It does not apply to Category 2 and Category 3 oil tanker.
Exemptions from the regulation are granted to Category 1 and Category 2 oil tanker operators who comply with the requirements of Regulation 19 of Annex I to MARPOL 73/78.
Limitations on the entry into the ports or offshore terminals under the jurisdiction of an EU country of other Category 2 or Category 3 and Category 4 and Category 5 and Category 6 and Category 7 and Category 8 and 8 and Category 9 and Category 10 and 10 and 11 and 12 and 11 tanker operators are also excluded from the scope of the regulation.
A ban on the transport to or from ports of the EU countries of heavy-grade oil in Category 1 or Category 1, 2, 3 and 4 heavy-duty oil carriers is in force from 20 July 2011.
The ban applies to:
category 1 and 2, Category 3, Category 4, Category 5, Category 6 or Category 7 oil carriers;
category 8 and 9, Category 10, Category 11 and Category 12 oil carriers and Category 13, Category 14 and 14 and 15 and 16 and 17 and 18 and 19 and 20 and 20 light-duty crude oil carriers.
In addition, the regulation prohibits:
the entry into or departure from the EU ports of a Member State of category 1,2,3,4,5 and 6 oil carriers of Category 2,5,6 and 7 categories; and
category 9 and 10 oil carriers with a maximum gross tonnage of 1.5 million tonnes.
Penalties
Member States may impose penalties for infringements of this regulation if:
a tanker is found to be in breach of the regulations;
a vessel is found not to be complying with the regulation; or
the vessel is a vessel of Category 3 or 4.
Compliance with the regulations is assessed by the European Commission, which is assisted by the Committee on Safe Seas and the Prevention of Pollution from Ships (COSS).
The Commission has delegated the power to adopt the delegated acts referred to in Article 10(1) to the COSS for a period of 5 years.
Amendments to Regulation (EC) 2015/856
The amendments to Regulation(EC) 2016/908 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
Directive 2010/96/EC has applied since 20 July 2010 and had to become law in the Member States by 20 July 2013.
BACKGROUND
   
 
For more information, see:
Maritime safety and maritime pollution prevention (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* MARPOL: the Convention relating to the law of the sea and its enforcement.
* Heavy-duty tanker: an oil tanker of more than 500 gross tonnes, carrying more than 1 million tonnes of crude oil.
MAIN DOCUMENT
  Егранска баркога галка (OJ L 321, 20.7.2010, pp. 1-2)
Successive amendments to Council Regulation (Eec) No 550/2010 have been annexed to the original document.
last update 04.01.2016



Summary 109:
European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority (EOPPA)
European Insurance & Occupational Pension Authority (eOPPA)*
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 1092/2010 on the establishment of a European Supervisory Authority
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes a European supervisory authority (e.g. the EOPPA).
It aims to ensure that the prudential supervision of financial institutions in the European Union (EU), as well as the stability of the EU’s financial system, is ensured.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to all EU Member States’ insurance and occupational pension (i.e. life, pension, health and long-term care) institutions.
It does not apply to banks.
The EPPAA has the following powers:
to adopt and adopt the rules applicable to it;
to make recommendations to the European Systemic Risk Board (ESRB);
to provide advice to the ESRB on the exercise of its supervisory powers; and
to act as a mediator between national supervisory authorities.
Role of the EPPA
The authority is responsible for:
monitoring and assessing the risk posed by financial institutions;
ensuring that all parties concerned are informed of all the measures taken by the authority;
assessing the risks that may arise in situations of stress;
providing advice and assistance to national authorities in the event of a serious disturbance to the financial system;
advising the European Commission, the European Parliament, the Council and the European Economic and Social Committee (EESC) on the application of the regulation;
adopting and implementing the rules of the European Financial Stability Facility (EFSA), the European Investment Bank (EIB) and the Single Resolution Mechanism (SRM);
assisting the European Banking Authority with its tasks;
taking the necessary measures to protect the interests of the general public and of the Member States.
Implementation and control of the budget
The European Commission may, under certain conditions, grant a discharge to the authority for the implementation of the annual budget comprising revenue from the General Budget of the Union and competent authorities for the financial year N.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
    банска ганка  года  
It has applied since 1 January 2011.
BACKGROUND
 
  данна закка
For more information, see:
‘The European Supervision Authority’ on the Eurogroup's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Financial institution: any financial institution, including banks, insurance and reinsurance companies, investment firms, pension funds and other financial institutions, that is subject to the supervision of the competent national authorities of an EU Member State.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member State
Official Journal
Council Regulation (EC) No 596/2010
1.1.2011
-
OJ L 165 of 1.1-2.2011, pp. 1-2
Amending act(s)
Entry INTO FORCE
Transposition: transposition between Member States in the Official Journal
Regulations (EC, Euratom) No 1/2014 and (EC), No 2/2014
2.2.2014
3.6.2016
4.5.2016



Summary 110:
Equal treatment of national and non-national workers in the European Union
Equitable treatment of nationals and nationals of non-EU countries
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 596/2005 on the equality of treatment of workers and nationals who are employed in the territory of another EU country
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to guarantee equal treatment to nationals of different EU countries when they work in the same place.
It codifies and repeals Council Regulation (Euratom) No 1082/93.
KEY POINTS
   
The regulation applies to all workers, whether they are nationals of an EU country or nationals of another.
Equality of treatment
EU countries must ensure that:
nationals enjoy equal treatment as regards membership of trade unions and the exercise of rights attaching thereto, including the right to vote and to be eligible for the administration or management posts of a trade union;
workers wishing to move can also be regularly informed of living and working conditions.
Nationals enjoy the same treatment as nationals of the EU country in which they are employed, irrespective of their place of residence or where they wish to live or work.
Employment and equal treatment
Employers are required to provide workers with equal treatment in respect of:
the conditions of employment, including:
health and safety;
compulsory training and education;
the right to health and safety, including protection against sickness and long-term care;
social security and protection against discrimination;
protection against discrimination based on sex, race, colour, ethnic origin, religion or belief, disability, sexual orientation, age, disability or sexual orientation;
a minimum age of 18;
equality of treatment with regard to working hours and dismissal;
equal treatment with respect to working conditions, including working hours, rest and rest;
access to education and training;
recognition and recognition of the qualifications and qualifications of workers’ representatives;
identification of employers’ qualifications and the recognition of their qualifications;
employment and employment contracts;
membership and membership of the trade unions;
participation in the administration and management of a union.
The European Commission is responsible for the implementation of the regulation. It is assisted by an Advisory Committee and a Technical Committee.
Amendments
Amending Regulation (EU) 2019/849 introduces a new type of technical committee to deal with:
changes in the EU’s labour market, such as the creation of new jobs or the introduction of a new form of social security;
changes to the rules relating to employment contracts and employment agreements;
new rules on the protection of workers against discrimination on grounds of nationality;
measures to protect the interests of the environment and human rights;
adjustment of working hours to the needs of the labour market.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
The original regulation has applied since 1 January 2006 and had to become law in all EU countries by 1 January 2007.
BACKGROUND
The Euratom Treaty on the Functioning of the Union (TFEU) has been amended several times.
For more information, see:
‘Employment equality’ on the European Commission's website.
* KEY TERMS
* National: a person who is a national of a Member State and who is employed in another Member State is entitled to equal treatment under the law of the Member State in which he or she is employed.
MAIN DOCUMENT
  Еълганска гранда барка (Codified version) (OJ L 183, 1.1.2006, pp. 1-2)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EC), No 598/2005 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
 
  (1) The European Parliament and the Council of 11 December 2005 on the implementation by the Member States of the Treaty on European Union of the Agreement on the approximation of the laws, regulations, administrative provisions and administrative provisions relating to the conditions of residence and working time of workers, and amending Council Regulations (EC, EEC, Euratom, EC, ECJ L 255, 30.12.2005, p. 1)
See consolidated version.
last update 11.01.2019



Summary 111:
Ozone-depleting potential of certain substances
Ozone degradation of substances (Ozone Degradation Regulation)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 596/2004 on the reduction of ozone depletion potential
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to protect human health and the environment against the adverse effects of the production and use of substances that deplete the ozone layer.
It recasts and repeals Council Regulation (EEC) 98/879/EEC.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to the production, placing on the market or use of certain chemicals, as well as to the import and export of these substances. It does not apply to certain substances listed in Annex I to the regulation.
The substances covered by the regulation are:
hydrochlorofluorocarbons (HFCs);
nitrous oxide (NOx);
chlorinated biphenyls (COs); and
nitrosamines (NOXs).
It does not cover certain substances, such as hydrocarbons, which are banned in the EU because of their harmful effects on human health, the environment and the human respiratory system.
Production and use
Producers of HFCs and NCOs are subject to a number of conditions, including the following:
they must comply with the following conditions:
the production of the substances is limited to the limits set out in Annex II to this regulation;
the quantities of each substance may not exceed the limits laid down in Annex III;
they are not to be placed on the European Union’s internal market;
there is no limit on the quantity of substances which can be produced;
each producer must ensure that each producer ensures that the quantities produced are not exceeded by more than 5 % of the total volume of the substance;
in addition, each producer must keep a register of the quantities of substances produced and the quantities exported to the EU.
In addition, certain substances may be excluded from the scope of the regulation if they have been authorised by the competent authority of an EU country.
There are also certain exceptions to the above conditions. For example, certain chemicals may be exempted from the above requirements if they are used in the following the approval of the EU country in which the production is taking place.
Imports and exports
Importers and exporters of substances may not place on the EU market or to use for their own account substances that are controlled by EU countries.
Exports and imports of substances to non-EU countries may be authorised if they comply with certain conditions, in particular that they do not endanger human health or the environment, and that they are not used for the manufacture, import or export of substances other than those listed in the annexes to this Regulation.
Limitations on imports and exports are laid down by Regulation (EU) 2017/852 (see summary).
The limits on the quantities that can be imported and exports of substances are set out by the Regulation (EC).
Imported and exported substances may only be imported into the EU if they meet the following criteria:
there are no restrictions on imports or exports of the following substances:
conformity with the laws and regulations of the Member State in which they are being imported or exported,
the substances are not intended for human consumption,
they have not been identified as being hazardous to human health (except in the case of nitrous oxide);
they do not have a significant effect on the environment or on the health of animals, plants or human beings;
imports or exports do not pose a risk to public health or to the environment.
Non-refillable containers may not be used to store or transport substances, except for laboratory and analytical uses.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
Directive 2004/96/EC has applied since 1 January 2005 and had to become law in the Member States by 1 January 2006.
BACKGROUND
   Â   бансканка гандалка (OECD) is one of the most widely traded chemicals in the world and is a major source of greenhouse gases.
For more information, see:
‘Ozone depletion potential of substances’ (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Nitrogen oxide: a substance that depletes ozone by absorbing ultraviolet radiation.
* NCO: an organic substance with a high degree of ultraviolet (i.e. no warming effect).
* Hydrochloric acid: a naturally occurring substance that is produced in the troposphere. It is a constituent of hydrochloric acids and is used in refrigeration and air conditioning equipment. It has a low degree of toxicity and has been shown to have a depleting effect in the atmosphere due to its formation in the presence of ultraviolet rays.
MAIN DOCUMENT



Summary 112:
European Union Agency for the Protection of the Environment (EUREA) (European Environment Agency) (see amending acts)
European Union agency for the protection of the environment (EureA)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 596/2008 establishing the European Union Agency to protect the environment
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
   
 
It sets up the European Environment Agency (ESA), a European Union (EU) body responsible for collecting, analysing and disseminating information on the EU’s environment.
KEY POINTS
The ESA is responsible for:
collecting and analysing all the information necessary to assess the present and foreseeable state of the EU's environment;
monitoring and evaluating the environmental situation;
providing information to the European Commission, the European Parliament, the Council and the European Economic and Social Committee (Euratom).
It is also responsible for the coordination of EU environmental policy.
Eurea is funded by the EU budget.
It has a budget of €2.5 billion for the 2014-2020 period.
The Eurea has a management board comprising representatives from each EU country. It is chaired by an EU country and is assisted by a Management Board.
Its tasks
ESA is responsible, in particular, for the following:
ensuring that:
the information it collects and analyses is accurate, reliable and up-to-date;
facilitating the exchange of information between EU countries;
coordinating the information between the EU countries on the environment and the EU;
carrying out the tasks assigned to it by the Commission and the Council;
assisting the Commission in the preparation of the multiannual work programme;
developing and implementing EU environmental policies;
contributing to the development of the environmental information network;
examining the environmental impact of EU policies and programmes;
collects, analyses and disseminates information on:
environmental policy;
the quality of life of the population and of the natural and human resources;
consulting with the public on the impact of environmental policy; and
assessing the environmental impacts on the economy and social aspects of environmental protection.
In addition, ESA is involved in the following activities:
coordination of the work of the European Network for the Assessment of the Environmental Impact of Physical, Scientific and Technological Developments (ENISA) and the Network of European Reference Materials and Measurements (NARME);
exchange of information on environmental issues;
organisation and coordination of the activities of the EUREA;
cooperation with the European Monitoring Centre (EMC);
the European Network of Scientific and Technical Experts (Eurostat); and
exchanges of information and expertise in the field of climate change and energy.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
The regulation has applied since 1 January 2009.
Amending act(s)
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Decision 2008/856/EC
1.1.2009
-
OJ L 183 of 1.1 of the following date
Amendments to Regulation (EC), Euratom
1) Euratom (Codified version)
2.2.2014
- (OJ C 162 of 25.6.2014, pp. 1-2)
Regulations (EC) No 1605/2002 and (EC).
3.4.2016
- [Official Journal C 168 of 27.5.2016].
RELATED ACTS
Council Regulation (EU, Eurat) 2016/849 of 25 November 2016 on the establishment of an Environmental Information Network (EIN) and repealing Regulation (EEC) 2015/852 (OJC) No 652/2014 (OIC) No 853/2014).
Last updated: 30.06.2016



Summary 113:
Assessment and verification of environmental compliance
Assessment & verification of Environmental compliance
SUMMARY OF:
Delegated Regulation (EU) 2016/852 — assessment and verification requirements for organisations relating to the environment
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to improve environmental compliance in the European Union (EU).
It sets out the conditions for organisations to be accredited and validated to ensure that they comply with EU environmental legislation.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to all EU-registered organisations, whether or not they are based in the EU.
It does not apply to companies operating in non-EU countries.
Requirements for organisations
To be accredited or licensed, an organisation must:
establish, implement and maintain an environmental management system (EMAS) and an updated environmental statement (Annex I);
provide an environmental statement, in accordance with Annex II of the regulation;
prepare an environmental assessment and an environmental verifier;
ensure that the information in the EMAS and the environmental statement are accurate, complete and up-to-date;
implement and maintain a programme to monitor and monitor the environmental aspects of its EMAS;
assess the verifier’s competence in the light of the elements set out in Annexes III and IV.
Accreditation and licensing bodies
An accreditation or licensing body is responsible for assessing whether an organisation meets all the requirements for the recognition of an EMAS or the environmental assessment.
An environmental assessment is carried out by an accredited body or by a licencing body.
The accreditation body is assisted by a competent body. The competent body may be national, regional or local.
Environmental verifiers
Certificates of environmental verifiers are issued by the competent body and are valid for a maximum of 5 years. They must meet the following criteria:
be based in an EU country;
have the necessary qualifications and experience;
be able to carry out the tasks of the accredited body;
meet the requirements laid down in Annex IV;
demonstrate that they have the necessary skills, knowledge and experience to ensure compliance with the requirements;
carry out their tasks in a manner that is appropriate to their role.
Certificate of compliance
The certificate of compliance is valid for 5 years and can be renewed for a further 5 years if the organisation does not fulfil the following conditions:
the environmental assessment has been validated;
the organisation has been accredited or licenced by an accreditation and/or licensing body and has carried out the verification and validation procedures correctly;
it has been published in the Official Journal of the EU;
in the case of a non-validated environmental assessment, it has been issued by a recognised body. If an organisation is found to be in breach of the requirements, it must take corrective action to prevent or reduce the impact of the non-conformity.
FROM WHEN DOES THE REGULAR REGULATING AND VERIFICATION APPLY?
The delegated regulation entered into force on 1 January 2017.
BACKGROUND
   
For more information, see:
‘Assessing and verifying environmental compliance’ on the European Commission's website.
MAIN DOCUMENT
 
  барсканка гранданскога нарка (гродна какоданна)
Commission Implementing Regulation (EC) No 852/2016/EU of 1 January 2016 laying down the requirements relating to environmental compliance (recast) (OJ L 347, 1.12.2016, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EEC) 2017/1652 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
  (1)
Report from the Commission to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions on the implementation of Decision No 6/2014/EU/EC of the Commission on the establishment of a Community Environment Action Programme (COM(2014) 696 final, 14.11.2014)
Consolidated version of the Treaty on European Union — Part Three — Union policies and internal actions — Title V — Common rules on the protection of the environment — Chapter 1 — Community actions — Section 1 — Environment — Article 1 (ex Article 101 TEC) (COM (2016) 697 final, 15.12).
last update 14.01.2017



Summary 114:
Rules on the definition, description, presentation and labelling of spirit drinks (Directive 2006/13/EC)
Rules on defining, describing, presentation, labelling and safety of spirit drink ingredients
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 596/2006 — rules on spirit drinks
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It lays down rules to define, describe, present and labilise spirit drinks.
It aims to protect the geographical indications of certain spirit drinks, while taking into account traditional production methods.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to spirit drinks which are:
made from ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin, with a maximum methanol content of 5 grams per hectolitre of 100% vol. alcohol;
made by means of the fermentation of agricultural products or products listed in Annex I to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) and which are not alcoholic;
produced in the territory of an EU country, subject to the conditions laid down in Annex II to the TFEU;
consisted of spirits obtained from the following fruits or berries:
plum (Prunus domestica L.),
coconut (Coconut),
pomace (Pomace),
sugar (Sugarcane),
chardonnay (Sugar),
malt (Maltese),
virgin olive oil,
salt (Sulphur),
wine (Spirate),
liqueur (Luxembourg),
Liqueur,
pomegranate,
vodka (Vodka),
zinfandel,
Liquor (Vienna),
Vincière,
Vinho verde verde,
Vienna,
Pernoden,
Brandy/Weinbrand,
Czechoslovakia,
Estonia,
Greece,
Helsinki,
Hungary,
Iceland,
Latvia,
Slovenia and
Romania
Lithuania,
Serbia,
Slovakia (Lithuanian liqueur) and
Spirits produced in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia,
Bulgaria, and
Vietnamese liqueurs.
Distribution and marketing
The legislation does not apply to:
alcoholic drinks which meet the definition of ‘spirit drink’;
wine-based drinks which do not meet the requirements for inclusion in categories 1 to 46 of Annex II;
spirits intended for consumption by the general public (e.g. sparkling wine, sparkling cider, sparkling rum, sparkling wine-based beer, etc.).
However, spirit drinks intended for the consumption of the general population may be marketed as such, provided that they do not exceed the following limits:
the maximum alcoholic strength by volume of a spirit drink is not more than 37.5% by volume;
the minimum alcoholic strength per 100 ml of fruit spirit is not less than 35.5%;
a spirit drink does not contain more than 5% alcohol by volume.
Labelling
A spirit drink must bear the sales denomination ‘Spirit Drink’.
The sales denomination must be preceded by the name of the fruit, berry or vegetable, such as: ‘Cocoa’, ‘Pompey’ or ‘Luxemi’ preceded by ‘Fruit Spirit’ and ‘cocoa or Liqueur’ (in the case of sparkling wine);
the sales denomination of a fruit spirit must be ‘fruit spirit or kirsch’ followed by the names of the fruits, berries or vegetables used in the preparation of the spirit drink.
Annex III to the regulation sets out the rules for the presentation of spirits.
Directive (EU) 2016/852 amends the regulation to take account of the fact that spirit drinks may not be marketed under trade marks, brand names or fancy names.
FROM WHEN DOES THE DIRECTIVE APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 January 2007 and had to become law in the EU countries by 1 January 2008.
BACKGROUND
 
  * KEY TERMS
* Spirit drink: a spirit is defined as:
an alcoholic drink made from the alcohol obtained by the fermentation, distillation and/or blending of the raw material(s) used.
* Cocoa: a sparkling wine or sparkling cider which does not have the properties of an alcoholic drink but still retains the aroma and taste of the wine or wine-product drinks, and which is not intended to be consumed as such.
MAIN DOCUMENT
  Егансканка/2006/EC of the Council and of the Representatives of the Governments of the Member States, meeting within the meaning of Article 13(



Summary 115:
Common rules for safeguarding civil aviation safety and security of passengers, cargo, mail and mail (until 31 December 2020) (Regulation (EC) No 596/2006)
Common rules on safeguarding the security of civil aviation
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation 2006/512/EC — common rules for the protection of persons and goods in the European Union (civil aviation)
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to protect passengers and goods against acts of unlawful interference with civil aviation.
It sets out common rules to protect the safety, security and quality of the transport of persons, goods and mail within the EU.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to:
passengers, cargo and mail;
aircraft;
cargo;
mail;
passenger and mail.
EU countries must ensure that:
the safety of passengers and cargo is guaranteed;
the security of the aircraft and of the passengers and mail is ensured;
there is a high level of protection for the safety of the cargo or mail of passengers;
security measures are in place to ensure that passengers and freight are not exposed to risks that could jeopardise their safety; and
airport security checks are carried out by the competent authorities.
The European Commission is assisted by a Committee composed of representatives of EU countries and the European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA).
National quality control programmes
Each EU country must establish a national quality control programme for the carriage of goods and passengers. The programme must allow for the swift detection and correction of any deficiencies in the programme may detect and correct any deficiencies. It must be submitted to the competent national authority, which may decide to take further action if necessary.
A security programme must be established by the entity applying aviation security standards. This programme must contain the following information:
a list of the entities responsible for applying security standards;
a description of the measures taken by each EU country to ensure compliance with the security programme;
an assessment of the effectiveness of the programme by the authority responsible for implementing the programme.
If the programme is found to be deficient, the competent authority must take the necessary measures to correct the deficiencies and inform the European Commission of the reasons for the deficiency.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 January 2007. EU countries had to incorporate it into national law by 1 January 2008.
BACKGROUND
 
The EU has adopted a number of measures to improve the security and safety of air transport in the EU, including:
rules on the identification and screening of persons;
rules for the certification of airlines;
measures to ensure the safe transport of mail and cargo by air.
For more information, see:
Civil aviation (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Passenger: any person, organisation or enterprise, other than an operator of an aircraft.
* Cargo or mail: any item of mail, whether it is intended for transport by air, sea or land.
MAIN DOCUMENT
  Егранска ганка  барка, гъланна какодна   Бакка and глакага даншка: the EU’s common rules on civil aviation (OJ L 200, 22.7.2006, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EC), as amended by Regulation (EU) 2017/849, have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
  (1)   The European Commission adopts Regulation (EEC) 2018/852 laying down common rules in the field of aviation security (see summary) and amends Regulations (EC, EFTA, Euratom) No 652/2014, (EC and EFTA) No 1296/2013, (EU), (Euratom), (EC Regulation (CFSP) No 1096/2014 and (EU).
  This regulation establishes a common framework for the implementation of common EU rules on air transport security.
See consolidated version.
last update 04.01.2020



Summary 116:
Freezing of funds and economic resources of individuals and entities involved in serious human rights violations and abuses in the EU
Freezing and restricting the movement of funds
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) 2018/1725 on the freezing and restriction of access to frozen funds
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to protect the EU’s financial and economic interests against the illegal activities of individuals, entities and bodies responsible for, providing support to or otherwise involved with serious human-rights violations or abuses, as well as those associated with them.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to:
individuals, entities or bodies listed in Annex I of the regulation;
the territories of the EU countries to which the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TEU) is applicable, under the conditions laid down in the TEU;
any natural or legal person, entity or body acting through or on behalf of one of the persons, entities listed in the annexes.
It does not apply to funds or economic resources belonging to, controlled by, held by or controlled by any EU country.
Procedures for the freezing
The freezing of funds is based on a number of factors, including the following:
the nature of the individual or entity concerned, the nature of its activities and the extent to which it is connected to the EU or the EU as a whole, and the nature and duration of its involvement in those activities.
The person or entity covered by the regulation must be identified by the competent national authority.
National authorities must inform the other EU countries and the European Commission within 2 weeks of receiving an application for an authorisation.
EU countries must ensure that the competent authority of the country concerned informs the Commission of any authorisation granted under the regulation and informs the European Parliament, the Council, the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy and the Committee of the Regions of the reasons for the decision.
If the Commission considers that an individual or body is not complying with the regulation, it informs the national authority of that the person or body concerned is subject to an asset freeze or asset freeze.
FROM WHEN DOES IT APPLY?
Decision (EU, Euratom) 2017/852/JHA (see summary) sets out the measures to be taken by the EU in response to the threat posed by the Russian Federation and the threat of its military intervention in the internal market.
Council Regulation (EU), Euratom (EC) No 596/2013 and Decision (EU/2017/849/EU) 2019/848 (see consolidated version)
Regulations (EU and Euratom), (EC), (Euratom) No 496/2014, (EC, EFTA) No 1099/2014 and (EU).
KEY TERMS
* Asset freeze: the freezing or restriction of funds, economic resources or any other means of obtaining, using or attempting to obtain financial or financial resources.
* Financial resources: any financial, economic or material asset, such as cash, securities or other assets.
ACT
Commission Implementing Decision 2017/884/JAI of 25 November 2017 concerning the freezing, restriction and restriction on the movement, freezing or restricting the movements, holding, use or possession of frozen funds and the freezing of economic resources in respect of persons and entities associated with, or directly or indirectly involved in, any of the above listed individuals and bodies.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Council Implementing Decision 2017/882/JCI
25.12.2017
-
OJ L 347 of 25.12-
Amending act(s)
Dateof entry into force - not published in the Official Journal
Commission Regulation (EC).
Last updated: 27.08.2017



Summary 117:
European Union military operation in the Mediterranean (EUNAVFORCE IN THE MIDMARY: EUNATIONAL MEDICAL OPERATION IN THE MARITIME (EUNAM MEDI)
European Union Military Operation in the MEDIAM MEDINI (EUNAM MED)
SUMMARY OF:
Decision (CFSP) 2020/472 — on a European Union Military operation in Libya
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DECISION?
It authorises the European Union (EU) to launch a military operation to combat human smuggling and trafficking in the eastern Mediterranean.
KEY POINTS
The decision sets out the operation’s mandate and its objectives.
The operation is based on the EU’S common security and defence policy (CSDP) and the common foreign and security policy.
It aims to:
contribute to the prevention, detection and eradication of illegal migration;
combat the smuggling of migrants, human trafficking and illegal arms trafficking, as well as to the illicit export of illicit oil and gas from Libya;
ensure the protection of EU nationals and the safety and security of EU citizens and nationals of non-EU countries;
reduce the risk of human smuggling, including by:
ensuring a high level of protection for EU nationals;
contributing to disruption of the business model of illegal immigration and trafficking networks;
providing a deterrent to illegal migration.
In addition, the EU will also:
supporting the efforts of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia (ICTYT), the Organisation for the Prohibition of Transnational Organised Crime (OCT), the fight against organised crime, and terrorism, and combating the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction (WMDMOs), as well-known as WMDs;
promoting cooperation between EU countries and the International Maritime Organization (IMO);
support the Libyan authorities in their fight against trafficking in human beings;
cooperating with the United Nations High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy (HR), assisted by the European External Action Service (EEAS).
The High Representative will act as the primary point of contact with the UN, the authorities of the countries in the region, and other international and bilateral actors, including NATO, the African Union and the League of Arab States. The High Representative is also authorised to release to the UN classified information up to ‘REST UE/REREREVISED’ level.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS DECISION APPLY?
The Council authorised the EU to launch the operation on 31 March 2020.
BACKGROUND
The EU has been involved in a number of military operations in Libya in recent years, including:
Operation SOPHIA (2014-2020) and
Operation MIRACLE (2015-2020).
For more information, see:
‘EU military operation against illegal migration’ on the European Commission's website.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Decision (EC) No 472/2020/CFSP of 30 March 2020 on an EU military operation on the Mediterranean in the framework of the Common Security and Defence Policy (EUMC) (OJ L 101, 4.4.2020, pp. 4-4)
RELATED DOCUMENTS
Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2019/1595 of 11 March 2019 on the common security policy for the period 2014-2020 (see summary) (see amending act(s) below).
last update 04.01.2020



Summary 118:
Facilitating the exchange of information on authentic documents and on known methods of falsification between EU countries’ authorities (FADO)
Facilitating cooperation between Member States in the fight against document and identity fraud (FADS)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) 2019/1896 establishing the European Agency for the Protection of the Internal Market against Document and Identity Fraud
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes the Facilitating the Exchange of Information on Authentic Documents and on Known Methods of Falsification of Documents and Identifications of Persons in the Schengen Area.
KEY POINTS
The FADO system was set up to facilitate the exchange and sharing of information between Member State authorities in order to prevent and combat fraud.
The Agency is responsible for ensuring the proper and reliable functioning of the FADSO system and for providing support to the competent Member States' authorities in the detection of false documents.
FADSO is a centralised information exchange system for the sharing of authentic and false documents between the competent national authorities of the Member States.
It is based on the information provided by the national authorities and is managed by the European Commission, which is assisted by the Agency’s Directorate-General for Internal Market and Competitiveness (DG-EMC).
The European Commission is the competent authority for the implementation of delegated acts. The Commission is empowered to adopt delegated acts by the Council and the European Parliament and the Council of the European Economic and Social Committee of the Regions.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULTRY APPLY?
The regulation has applied since 1 January 2019.
BACKGROUND
   
The purpose of the regulation is to establish a system to facilitate cooperation between national authorities to prevent, detect and combat the production and use of false or fraudulent documents and to identify the methods used to obtain them.
For more information, see:
‘Facilitating information exchange’ on authentic and falsified documents (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Document and identity* fraud: any act or omission which is likely to result in the loss or damage of a person's identity or cause damage to their physical, mental or social integrity.
* FADSOR: a system of information exchange between national and EU-level authorities for the purpose of preventing, detecting and combating the production, use and falsification of false and/or fraudulent documents, as well as for the identification and verification of authentic documents obtained by fraudulent means.
MAIN DOCUMENT
 			
Council Resolution of 13 December 2016 on the establishment of a European Agency to Facilitating Information Exchange on Authentific Documents and On-the-spot Analysis of Authentic Document and Identification of Persons and Identities in the European Union and repealing Regulation (EC) No 182/2011/2011 (OJ L 55, 28.2.2016, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 1925/2014 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
 
  The European Commission adopts delegated acts in the field of internal market and competition policy, in accordance with the rules and general principles laid down in the Interinstitutional Agreement of 13 April 2016 on Better Law-Making.
Council Decision 2014/856/EU of 25 June 2014 concerning the extension of the powers of the Commission to adopt a delegated act concerning the protection of the internal market against counterfeiting and fraud and repealing Council Decision 1999/437/EC.
last update 04.01.2020



Summary 119:
Access to regulated professions
Access to unregulated professions
SUMMARY OF:
Directive 2009/43/EC — access to regulated profession
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DIRECTIVE?
   
 
It aims to ensure that professionals who are not covered by national legislation have the same access to the regulated professions as consumers.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The directive applies to the following professions:
physicists, dentists, optometrists, architects, architects and engineers;
veterinary surgeons;
vocational trainers;
consultants and architects;
legal advisors;
business managers;
professional trainers.
It does not apply to any other profession.
Regulation
The regulation of a regulated profession is based on the principle of non-discrimination and on the principles of proportionality. It does not preclude the introduction of additional requirements to attain the public interest objectives of the legislation.
The European Commission has adopted a summary report on the implementation of the directive.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS DIRECTIVE APPLY?
It entered into force on 1 January 2010. EU countries had to incorporate it into national law by 1 January 2012.
BACKGROUND
The Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union (‘the Charter’) guarantees the freedom to choose an occupation, as well as to conduct a business.
However, in the absence of specific rules on access to a regulated professions, it is up to each EU country to decide whether and how to regulate them.
For more information, see:
‘Access to the profession’ on the European Commission's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Regulated profession: a profession in which the activity of a person is regulated.
MAIN DOCUMENT
* Directives:
Council Directive 2009/42/EC on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the regulation of the regulated profession and the access to that profession, and repealing Directive 2005/36/EC.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member State of the Union
Official Journal
Council Recommendation of 12 December 2009 on the interpretation, application and application of Council Recommendation (EC) No 552/2009/43
1.1.2010
-
OJ L 347 of 12.12.2009
RELATED DOCUMENTS
Regulated profession (EU) 2017/849
Regulating profession (EC).
last update 04.01.2018



Summary 120:
Management of fish stocks in the North Sea and the Faroe Islands
Migratory fish stocks
Migration of migratory fish in the north-east Atlantic
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 1224/2009/2014 on the common fisheries policy
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It lays down the rules for the management of fish stock and functional units (FMSY) in the northern and faroe islands.
It aims to restore fish stocks to levels that are capable of producing sustainable fish stocks (MSY).
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to fish stocks of:
fisheries exploiting stocks of plaice and sole (plaice, sole, molluscs, clams and clams);
fishing opportunities for stocks of clams (e.g. oysters, swordfish, mussels, clammed mackerel);
fish stocks of certain species of fish (cetaceans, porbeagle, bonito, skates, porpoises, porcine, sea breams, oysters);
seabirds (sailfish, sharks and skates).
It does not apply to stocks of fish belonging to the stock or functional unit listed in the regulation’s Annex II.
Fishing opportunities must be fixed in such a way as to:
prevent variations in fishing opportunities between consecutive years to not more than 20 %;
limit variations in the number of fishing opportunities per year to no more than 5 %; and
limit variation in fishing mortality to not less than 5% per year.
limit the total annual fishing opportunities (TAC) per FMSY per fishery.
The plan must contain objectives, quantifiable targets with clear timeframes, conservation reference points, safeguards and technical measures designed to avoid and reduce unwanted catches.
In addition, the plan must provide for additional management measures to ensure the sustainable management of MSY.
Management measures
The management plan must be based on the best available scientific and technical information and must contain:
a list of objectives and targets for the return of the stock to levels above those capable of production MSY;
a description of the measures to be taken to achieve these objectives;
measures to prevent and reduce the risk of unwanted catches;
the list of measures to prevent or reduce the impact of recreational fishing on MSY, including measures to limit the quantity of recreational catches and/or to restrict fishing opportunities;
targeting the maximum number of fish caught per year for each species of fished fish;
specific measures to protect the marine environment and the marine ecosystems, including the establishment of a marine protected area (MPA).
The Commission is empowered to adopt delegated acts to adopt the management plan.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
The Regulation has applied since 1 January 2014.
BACKGROUND
   
The Common Fisheries Policy (CFP) is the EU's fisheries policy and is implemented by the EU and its Member States. It aims to protect and restore the stocks of marine mammals, birds, reptiles, amphibians, crustaceans and fish stocks.
For more information, see:
‘Fisheries’ on the European Commission's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Migratory species: fish that migrate between the North Atlantic Ocean and the Atlantic Ocean.
ACT
Council Regulation (EC) No 676/2007 of 11 June 2007 establishing a multiannual plan for fisheries exploiting stock of Plaice (OJ L 157, 19.6.2007, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EEC) no 672/2007 have been incorporated into the basic text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 04.01.2016



Summary 121:
Fishing in the South-East Pacific Fishery Management Organisation (SPRFMO) area
Fishing on the south-east Pacific fishery management Organisation (SAPFMO)* area
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) 2017/852 — rules on the participation of EU fishing vessels in bottom fishing activities in the SPRFMO Convention Area
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It lays down rules to ensure that EU countries’ fishing vessels comply with the Convention on the conservation and management of the living resources of the sea.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to all fishing vessels registered in the European Union (EU).
It does not apply to vessels registered outside the EU.
It applies to:
ships registered in a non-EU country;
vessels registered in an EU country other than that of the EU;
ships owned or operated by EU countries;
seagoing vessels operating under the authority of an EU Member State;
fishing vessels operating in an area other than the one covered by the regulation.
EU countries must ensure that:
fisheries are carried out in accordance with the rules laid down in Regulation (EC) No 1005/2008 on the protection of the marine environment;
the vessels are accompanied by an authorised representative of the Commission.
Fisheries must comply with:
the principles laid down by the Convention of the International Convention for the Protection of the Marine Environment of the Faroe Islands (CITESO);
the rules set out in the CITO;
rules set out by the European Commission on the registration of vessels;
a list of the species of fish to which EU countries are allowed to fish.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
From 1 January 2018.
BACKGROUND
The SPRFOMO is the International Maritime Organization’s (IMO) organisation for the conservation, management and sustainable management of marine life.
The EU is a contracting party to the convention.
For more information, see:
‘Bottom fishing’ on the EU Commission's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Fishing vessel: any fishing vessel operating in the bottom fishing area of the Convention Area.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 852/2017 of 1 January 2017 laying down rules on participation of the Member States in the activities of the Society for the Conservation and Management of Marine Living Resources of the Sea (SPRFMO) (OJ L 347, 1.12.2017, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (Euratom) 2016/856 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
Regulations (EC, Euram) No 1010/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2008 laying down common rules on fishery protection and amending Council Decision 98/392/EC and Council Decision 2001/849/EC (OJC L 347 of 11.12 December 2008)
See consolidated version.
last update 04.01.2018



Summary 122:
Controls on cash entering and leaving the EU
Countries must introduce measures to prevent and combat money laundering and terrorist financing. This regulation lays down rules to ensure that controls on cash are effective and efficient.
ACT
Council Regulation (EU) 2016/794 of 25 April 2016 on controls of cash entering or leaving the European Union.
SUMMARY
WHAT DOES THIS REGULATION DO?
It establishes a system of controls with respect to cash entering the EU to complement the EU’s legal framework for the prevention of money laundering.
KEY POINTS
Controls are based on a threshold of €10,000 per person, per day, per country.
The limit is set by the European Commission and the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF).
It does not apply to:
cash belonging to individuals;
money belonging to companies;
prepaid cards;
cash used for the transport of goods or goods intended for personal consumption;
the proceeds of criminal activities.
Information exchange between EU countries
EU countries must:
ensure that the competent authorities of the EU country in which the cash is being brought into or out of the country have access to all the relevant information;
share this information with the competent national authorities of other EU countries if there are indications of criminal activity;
inform the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) of all the information they have obtained;
provide information on suspected criminal activities;
identify any persons or entities involved in money laundering, terrorist financing or money laundering;
assess by 1 June 2019 the need to establish a common mechanism for the exchange of information between the relevant national authorities.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLACE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
The regulation entered into force on 1 June 2016.
BACKGROUND
This regulation is one of a series of measures designed to strengthen the fight against money laundering in the EU. The other measures include:
the establishment of a common EU-wide system for the control of the movement of cash within the EU;
measures to prevent the reintroduction of illicit proceeds into the economy and the diversion of money to finance illicit activities, as well as measures to combat the financing of terrorism.
For more information, see:
‘Controls of cash’ on the OLAF's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Cash: cash belonging to a natural person or to a business.
MAIN DOCUMENT
 
   
Council Resolution of 25 May 2016 on the introduction of measures to protect the integrity of the internal market against the illicit circulation of cash (OJ C 202, 1.6.2016, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EC) No 2111/2006 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 14.01.2017



Summary 123:
Integrated national energy and climate plans for the energy union (2014-20) and beyond
Integmented national energy & climate plans (2014 - 20)
SUMMARY OF:
Directive (EU) 2016/2284 on the energy Union
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DIRECTIVE?
It sets out the EU’s energy union and the framework for its implementation.
It aims to improve energy security, reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and tackle climate change.
KEY POINTS
The energy union aims to:
improve energy security;
improve the internal energy market;
reduce greenhouse gas emissions;
decarbonise;
increase energy efficiency; and
improve research, innovation and competitiveness.
The directive sets out a framework for the implementation of these objectives. It also sets out how the EU plans to meet these objectives and how they should be aligned with the Paris Agreement on Climate Action (see summary).
The framework is based on the Energy Union Framework Directive (2014/40/EU), which aims to ensure a high degree of mutual trust between the EU and its Member States, while limiting administrative complexity. It is also designed to ensure that national energy plans are consistent with the objectives set out in the framework directive.
Scope
The legislation applies to all EU Member States. It does not apply to the EU countries’ energy security and climate policies.
National energy plans must cover ten-year periods and should provide an overview of the current energy system and policy situation. They should also provide an assessment of the energy situation and future energy needs of the EU, climate and climate situation, as well into the future.
In addition, they should include:
a description of how the energy system is currently functioning,
a breakdown of the national energy security framework and a description of the future energy system;
a summary of the measures to be taken to achieve the energy security objectives;
an assessment of how climate change is likely to affect energy security over the next 10 years.
Cooperation between Member States
Member States are required to cooperate with the European Commission, which is responsible for:
monitoring the implementation and implementation of the plans;
assessing the impact of energy policies and measures on climate change;
sharing information on the climate and energy situation;
developing and implementing climate action plans.
Implementing the framework
The Commission must:
inform the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions of the progress it has made in implementing the framework;
draw up a report every 5 years on the progress made by Member States on implementing the EU energy union;
provide the Commission with a report on how the framework is being applied;
make recommendations to the Council on how to implement the framework.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS DIRECTIVE APPLY?
The decision has applied since 1 January 2017.
BACKGROUND
   
 
The Energy Union is one of the pillars of the European Union (EU). It is the single energy market and is the main source of energy for the EU.
For more information, see:
Energy Union (European Commission).
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Directive 2014/42/EU of 14 December 2016 on the integrated national energy union, amending Directive 2003/35/EC and repealing Directive 2001/81/EC (OJ L 344, 17.12.2016, pp. 1-24)
RELATED DOCUMENTS
  (1)
Report from the Commission on the implementation by the Member States of the integrated National Energy Union and of the Framework Decision 2014/41/EU (COM(2017) 796 final of 15.3.2017)
last update 04.01.2017



Summary 124:
Chemical substances and hazardous waste: EU action plan
Chemicals and hazardous wastes: EU actions plan
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 596/2008 — EU action plans for the prevention, control and elimination of hazardous substances and waste
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
   
 
It aims to protect human health and the environment against the risks associated with the production, manufacture, placing on the market and use of hazardous chemicals and waste.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to substances, mixtures and articles which may present a risk to human health or the environment.
It does not apply to substances listed in Annex I to Directive 2008/98/EC (see summary).
It applies to the following substances:
polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs);
polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs);
pentabromodiphenyl ethers;
chlorinated naphthalenes;
decaBDEs and hexabromide;
piperazine.
The list of substances covered by the regulation is amended by Regulation (EU) 2019/856, which sets out the list of chemicals and mixtures which are subject to the EU’s maximum limits for their presence in mixtures or articles.
Control
The European Commission is responsible for:
monitoring the substances and articles covered by this regulation;
checking that substances are safe for human health;
assessing the safety and environmental impact of substances;
establishing an EU-wide database of substances and their mixtures.
checking the conformity of substances to the relevant EU legislation.
EU countries must ensure that substances listed on the European Chemicals Agency (ECA) and the European Forum for the Protection of Life and Health of the Environment (EFHA) are listed on their national lists of banned substances.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
It has applied since 16 July 2008 and had to become law in the EU countries by 16 July 2011.
BACKGROUND
 The regulation is one of a series of measures designed to protect the health and environment of the European Union (EU).
For more information, see:
‘Hazardous substances’ on the ECA's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Hazardous substance: any substance or mixture of substances with a high potential for causing, or likely to cause, serious adverse effects on human health, the environment or the health of animals, plants, plants or other organisms, or which has the potential to do so, if it is present in a quantity exceeding the limits set out in the regulation.
ACT
Council Regulation (EC), Euratom, Euratom of 20 June 2008 establishing a European Union Action Plan for the Prevention, Control and Elimination of Hazardous Substances and Waste
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Decision 2008/96/EC
16.7.2008
-
OJ L 263, 9.10.2008, pp. 1-8
Amending act(s)
Entry INTO FORCE
Date of entry into force
Final date for implementation: 16.07.2019
Regulations (EC, EFHA) No 856/2008, (ECB) No 2111/2008 and (ECE) No 4111/2009
Regulating (EU), Euraco) No 652/2008
1.1.2009
- (ECO) No 1099/2009 (OJ C 202, 1.8.2009, p. 1)
Amendments to Regulation (Euraco, Euraco, EEA) No 1606/2008 have been incorporated in the basic text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED ACTS
Regulatory (EEC) 2017/858 of the Council of 11 March 2017 on the harmonisation of the laws of the Member State relating to the manufacture, place on the Market and use, and the listing of substances, substances, materials and articles intended for human consumption and amending Council Regulation (C(2014) 656/2009).
last update 14.01.2019



Summary 125:
Single-use plastic products and fishing gear — addressing marine litter (SUMMARY OF:
Directive 2010/65/EU — combating marine litter
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DIRECTIVE?
It aims to reduce plastic pollution in the European Union (EU) by reducing the amount of plastic waste that ends up in the marine environment.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The directive applies to plastic products that are found the most on beaches in the EU, as well as fishing gear containing plastic and products made from oxo-degradable plastic.
It does not apply to:
plastic products used in medical devices, such as medical devices and implants, which are not designed for re-use or can be recycled;
plastics used in toys, toys and household products;
fishing gear which is made from plastic and which is not intended to be reused or re-used;
single-use products which are found in the sea or in the air and which are intended for use only once or once only.
EU countries must take the necessary measures to ensure that the plastic products listed in the directive are not placed on the market. They must also ensure that producers of these products are responsible for the costs of cleaning up marine litter.
Producers of plastic products are required to cover, in addition to the cost of waste collection and treatment of waste, the costs associated with the waste generated by public collection systems and the subsequent transport and treatment by the EU country in which the product is placed on sale.
The legislation does not cover:
the costs of waste from the manufacture, manufacture and sale of the products listed above, or from the disposal of waste in landfills or landfishing vessels;
the cost of the waste collection of waste fishing gear.
Implementing acts
The European Commission must adopt implementing acts laying down the format for reporting data and information in accordance with the directive’s Annex I. These must be transmitted electronically to the European Environment Agency (EEA) by 1 January 2022.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS DIRECTIVE APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 January 2010. EU countries had to incorporate it into national law by 31 December 2012.
BACKGROUND
 
The plastic waste directive is one of a series of legislative measures designed to tackle plastic pollution. The other measures are:
Regulation (EC) No 1342/2008 on plastic waste (see summary), which aims to protect the environment and human health by reducing plastic waste in the environment;
Council Directive 2008/98/EC on the prevention, control and elimination of marine litter and repealing Directive 2000/59/EC (see overview);
Directives 2000/60/EC and 2008/56/EC, which aim to protect marine ecosystems and human life by reducing marine litter;
Directions 2010/59 and 2014/34/EU on the protection of marine environment and the sustainable use of plastic;
Decision 2014/35/EU establishing a framework for the implementation of the marine litter directive (See summary).
KEY TERMS
* Single-use product: a product which is intended only to be used once or only for a limited period of time and is not designed to be recycled or reused or reused.
* Fishing gear: a piece of fishing gear that is intended for only one purpose and which can be used only once, for example, to catch fish or to catch marine mammals.
MAIN DOCUMENT
 			  	 	
  (OJ L 151, 6.6.2010, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Directive 2010/64/EU have been incorporated in the basic text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only. This is for reference purposes only
RELATED DOCUMENTS
Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 1224/2009 of 20 November 2009 establishing a Union control system for ensuring compliance with the rules of the common fisheries policy, amending Regulations (EEC, EFTA and the European Maritime Safety Agency) and Council Regulation (EC), and repealing Regulations (EC, EC) No 847/96, (EC and EFTA) No 1627/94 and Council Directive 2001/65 and 2002/96/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council and Commission Directives 2001/59, 2001/60 and 2001/61/EC as regards fishing gear, and repealing Council Directives 2002/65, 2002/60, 2003/61, 2004/61 and 2004/62/EC.
last update 04.01.2019



Summary 126:
Registration of EU trade marks
Registration of European Union trade marks (EU trade marks)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 596/2004 on the registration of the EU trade mark
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets up the European Union Office for Harmonisation of Trade Marks (EUTM), the EU’s official register of trade marks.
KEY POINTS
The regulation sets out the rules for the registration and functioning of the EUTM.
It also lays down the conditions under which trade marks can be registered and the procedures for their enforcement.
Registration
The registration of a trade mark is carried out by means of a certificate of registration issued by the Eutm.
The register is valid for a period of 5 years from the date on which the application is made. It may be renewed for a further 5 years if the applicant does not meet certain conditions.
A trade mark may be registered in one EU country or in another EU country if it is:
recognised by a national trade mark registered in that country;
obliged by national law;
applied for in an EU country; or
obtained in an international application.
An application for registration may be made by:
a person or organisation established in one or more EU countries;
a company established in a non-EU country; and
a business established in the EU country.
If an application is accepted, the holder must:
submit a copy of the application to the trade mark to the office of the Office;
apply for a licence to use the trade marks;
submit the application in a language other than English or French;
provide all the information necessary to obtain the registration;
pay a fee to the Office for the purpose of obtaining the registration certificate;
notify the Office within 3 months of receiving the application;
inform the Office of the reasons for rejecting the application within 30 days of receiving it;
ensure that the applicant has all the necessary documentation to prove that the application has been accepted;
approve the application and the validity of the registration.
Application for registration
If the Office accepts the application, the applicant must provide the following information:
the name and address of the person or company concerned;
the trade mark in question;
any other information requested by the applicant;
information concerning the nature, origin and nature of the trademark;
an estimate of the value of the registered trade mark.
Where the applicant fails to provide the information required, the Office may refuse to register the application or refuse to issue a certificate. If the applicant is unable to provide all of the information requested, it may decide that the registration has expired and notify the proprietor of the loss or damage caused by the infringements.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
The original regulation entered into force on 1 January 2005. It has applied since 1 January 2006.
BACKGROUND
The EutM was set up under Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 696/2003.
For more information, see:
Trade marks (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Trade mark: a sign or indication used to identify a product or service.
ACT
Council Regulation (EU) No 529/2004 of 12 December 2004 on the Registration of the Union Trade Mark (Codified version) (OJ L 347, 14.12.2004, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EEC) no 529/04 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 04.01.2016



Summary 127:
Accessible formats for copyright and related rights for the making and dissemination of copies, in accessible formats of certain works and other protected subject matter (Marrakesh Treaty)
Assessment of Accessible formats in the field of cultural materials for the benefit of persons with disabilities (MARPAC)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) 2017/1564 on the application of the Marrakesh Convention on Accessible Formats for the Making and Distribution of Copies of Copyright and Related Rights for the Benefit of Persons with Disabilities
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to improve the availability of accessible format copies of copyright, related rights and related cultural materials to persons who are blind, visually impaired or otherwise print-disabled.
It requires contracting parties to provide for exceptions or limitations to copyright or related rights in order to make and disseminate accessible formats* of protected works and subject matter and for the cross-border exchange of those copies.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to the following:
copies of copyright-protected works or other subject matter made in an accessible format (e.g. in Braille, large print, adapted e-books, audio books and radio broadcasts).
Authorised entities (i.e. entities established in an EU country) may distribute, communicate or make available to beneficiary persons or to an authorised entity established in a non-EU country that is a party to the Convention on the protection of intellectual property rights (CPR) an accessible version of a work or other CPR made in accordance with the national legislation adopted by that country.
An authorised entity may also make available, to the public or to a third party, an accessible form of the same work or subject matter.
Export of accessible formats to third countries
EU countries may not restrict the export of these copies to third parties.
Exceptions to certain rights
An EU country may introduce a mandatory exception for certain rights that are harmonised by EU law. This exception must be provided for in the national law of the EU country in which the authorisation has been granted.
The authorisation is valid for a period of 5 years from the date of entry into force of the relevant national legislation. The authorisation period may be renewed or terminated at any time by the competent national authority.
Authorisation of authorised entities
An authorisation may be refused if:
the content of the work or the subject matter is protected by copyright;
the authorisation does not comply with the conditions laid down in this regulation; or
the use of the content is contrary to public policy or to the general public interest.
Accessibility of the accessible format may be subject to certain conditions, such as:
it must be accessible to persons with visual impairments or disabilities, insofar as, as a result of such impairments and disabilities, those persons are unable to read printed works to substantially the same degree as persons without such disabilities;
it may not be adapted to the extent that would normally be normally acceptable for reading; and
it is subject to the conditions set out in Annex I to this regulation.
In addition, an authorisation must be granted for the following purposes:
to:
make accessible formats available to beneficiaries;
to the public;
for the exchange of these accessible formats between EU countries;
in the event that the content of an adapted version of the adapted version is covered by national legislation;
exchange of these adapted formats between the EU countries.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
The Regulation has applied since 1 January 2018.
BACKGROUND
The Marrakhé Convention is the United Nations Convention for the Protection of Intellectual Property Rights (UNCRPD) and its Protocol on Accessibility of Cultural Materials for Persons With Disabilities.
For more information, see:
Accessible format for copyright (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Accessible format: any form of printed material that is intended to be read or understood by a person with visual or print-impaired eyes, but which is not intended for the naked eye.
* Copyright: the right to reproduce, reproduce, translate, translate or translate a work into a language other than that of the author.
ACT
Council Regulation (EU), Euratom, Euratom of 11 December 2017 on the approximation of the laws and regulations of the Member States relating to access to cultural material for persons with disability and repealing Council Regulation (Euratom) No 596/2004 (OJ L 183, 12.12.2017, pp. 1-8)
RELATED ACTS
Council Decision (CFSP) 2015/856/CFSP of 25 November 2015 on the evaluation of the application by the Member State of the Convention of the Rights of the Blind, Visually Impaired and Otherwise Print-Disabled Persons to the Accessible Format for Copyright and related Rights in the Field of Cultural Material for Persons with Disability (



Summary 128:
Cooperation and coordination between EU countries’ consumer protection authorities and the EU’s consumer protection network (Regulation (EU) 2017/1128 — cooperation and coordination among the consumer protection networks and the networks of regulatory bodies and authorities established by sectoral EU legislation
Coordination and cooperation among EU countries' consumer protection organisations and the national authorities
SUMMARY OF:
Delegated Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2018/2195 — cooperation between the European Commission and national authorities in the field of consumer protection
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to improve cooperation between EU Member States’ competent authorities in order to prevent and combat cross-border infringements of EU consumer protection legislation.
It establishes a common framework for cooperation between national authorities.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to the following types of infringements:
cross-border infringement:
the infringement by a trader of a product or service which has a European dimension (i.e. the infringement is carried out by more than one trader in the same Member State);
an infringement with a Union dimension (e.g. an infringement that affects all EU consumers).
It does not apply to intra-EU infringements.
EU-wide actions
Member States must cooperate with each other to prevent, detect, investigate and enforce the infringement of a trader in their own Member State.
The Member States must notify the Commission of any infringements that they consider to be widespread or widespread.
They must inform the Commission within 3 months of receiving a notification of an infringement.
If an infringement is widespread, the Member State must take all necessary measures to prevent or remedy it.
In the event of a Member State failing to do so, the Commission must take appropriate action to ensure the protection of the consumer.
Reporting
The Commission must report annually to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions on the enforcement priorities submitted by the Member States under this regulation and on the results of the investigations and enforcement actions carried out under the regulation.
Cooperation between the Commission and the competent authorities
The European Commission is responsible for:
coordinating the actions taken by the Commission, Member States and the Commission;
monitoring the implementation of the regulation;
assessing the effectiveness of the cooperation between Member States;
drawing up a list of priority actions to be prioritised;
preparing a report every 2 years on the implementation and results of enforcement actions;
sharing information on enforcement priorities.
Penalties
The following penalties are applicable:
a fine of up to EUR 100,000 for each infringement;
a maximum fine of EUR 500,000 if the infringement takes place in more than 1 Member State;
an additional fine of €500,000 in the case of a widespread infringement or widespread infringement with an EU dimension.
Exemptions
Directive 2014/17/EU and Directive 2014/92/EU (see summary) provide for the possibility for Member States to prohibit the sale of certain goods and services to a third party in the European Union (EU), subject to certain conditions. However, this prohibition does not extend to the sale, supply or use of these goods or services within the EU.
Amendments to the regulation
Amending Regulation (EC) No 2006/2004 provides for a review of the Regulation and its operational mechanisms and its implementation. This Regulation is part of this review.
FROM WHEN DOES THE REGUMENT APPLY?
   
 
It has applied since 1 January 2019.
BACKGROUND
  * KEY TERMS
  (1) Member State: the country in which the infringement took place.
* Member States: the EU country where the infringements took place and where the infringement was committed.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force
Deadline for transposition in the Member Statute
Official Journal
Regulation(EU) No 2195/2018
1.1.2019
-
OJ L 347 of 1.12.2018, pp. 1-8.
Successive amendments to Regulation (Euratom) 2016/1195 have been incorporated in the basic text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED ACTS
 			
  The European Commission adopts Implementing Regulation (CFSP) 2019/856 of 11 December 2019 laying down detailed rules on the application of Regulation (C(2014/17) and repealing Council Directive 90/314/EEC (Official Journal L 326 of 11.12 December 2015).
last update 14.01.2019



Summary 129:
In vitro diagnostic medical devices (i.e. medical devices) — EU rules for their safety and quality
In vitro diagnostics (i-IVM)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 596/2008 — in vitro diagnostic* medical devices
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
 
It establishes a European Union (EU) framework for the sale and placing on the market of in vitro diagnostic medical devices* (I-IVMs).
It aims to ensure a high level of safety and health whilst supporting innovation.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to the sale, manufacture, importation and distribution of I-VMs and their components.
It does not apply to:
in vitro diagnostic devices* and their accessories* intended for use in the human body;
medical devices intended only for the diagnosis and treatment of human beings;
diagnostic devices intended exclusively for the use of animals or plants; or
medical equipment intended only to be used in the animal or plant population.
Manufacturers and distributors
The manufacturer is responsible for ensuring that:
the products are manufactured in accordance with the requirements laid down in the regulation;
they comply with the EU’s national legislation;
the devices meet the requirements of the European Medicines Agency (EMSA);
they have been approved by the competent national authority in the EU country in which they are placed on sale; and
they fulfil the requirements set out in Annexes I and II and III of the regulation.
Distributors
they must ensure that the products they place on the EU-registered in another EU country conform with the regulation and comply with its requirements.
Importers and importers must comply with all the requirements listed in Annex IV and III, as well as with Annexes IV and V.
The European Commission may adopt delegated acts to amend the regulation in the light of scientific and technical progress.
Amendments to the regulation
Implementing acts
Amending Regulation (Euratom) 2019/856 amends Regulation (EC), which introduces a new type of electronic label for I-IV devices. It replaces the previous type of label, which was replaced by an electronic label. This new type is called an ‘AIDC label’. AIDC technologies include bar codes, smart cards, biometrics and RFID. The new label must be compatible with all EU countries’ national laws and regulations. It must be clearly visible and clearly distinguishable from other medical devices on sale in the same EU country.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
It has applied since 1 January 2009 and had to become law in the Member States by 1 January 2011.
BACKGROUND
   Â  
In 2014, the European Commission adopted Directive 2014/40/EU on the harmonisation of the laws of the Member State in which in vitro medical devices are to be sold (see summary).
For more information, see:
‘In vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices’ on the Euratom website.
* KEY TERMS
* In vitro medical device: a medical device that can be used to diagnose, assess, monitor and evaluate the health and safety of an individual or a group of individuals. It is used to detect, diagnose, monitor, assess and monitor the effects of an illness or injury on the body or the environment, and to assess the effectiveness of medical treatment.
ACT
  барсканка грандарка, гългарна какованна  глана,  цакка and годанскога блакса вактанъ, шаки гакчанта  гродна and ъкъшка (Regulation) (OJ L 165, 1.7.2009, pp. 1-8)
* Importers: any person or body authorised to sell, import or export in the territory of an EU Member State.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition into force
Official Journal
Decision No 598/2008/EC
1.1.2009
-
OJ C 165, 31.12.2008
RELATED ACTS
Commission Implementing Decision (EU, Euratom) 2018/858 of 11 December 2018 on the establishment of a European Commission Directorate-General for Medicines, Food Safety and Health (DG-EMSA) and amending Council Regulation (CFSP) No 652/2008 (O J L 157,



Summary 130:
Ensuring appliances and fittings comply with EU safety rules
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) 2015/856 — EU safety requirements for appliances and fitting
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
   
 
It aims to ensure that appliances and their fittings are safe and to ensure the safety of consumers.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to all electrical and electronic appliances, including:
electromagnetic compatibility (e.g. the compatibility of electrical appliances with electromagnetic compatibility devices);
appliances which are intended to be placed on the market and put into service in the EU;
equipment intended for the repair or maintenance of an appliance or a fitting.
It does not apply to products intended for sale in non-EU countries.
Importers and importers must ensure that:
the appliance or the fitting is accompanied by a CE marking and an EU declaration of conformity, as set out in Regulation (EC) No 765/2008 on conformity assessment;
the manufacturer and importer provide the relevant information and documentation to the competent national authority of the EU country in which the appliance or fitting is to be sold;
instructions are written in a language which can be easily understood by the consumer;
importers are informed of any residual risks due to any shortcomings of the protection measures adopted and indicate whether any particular precautions are required.
Manufacturers must ensure the CE marking is affixed to the appliance and the fitting in accordance with the relevant national legislation.
The EU countries must take the necessary measures to ensure conformity assessment procedures are carried out in conformity with this regulation.
EU countries must also ensure that the conformity assessment procedure is carried out by an independent body designated by the European Commission.
Conformity assessment procedure
The manufacturer must carry out a conformity assessment to check that the appliances or fittings meet all the essential requirements of the regulation. If the appliance is found to be in breach of these essential requirements, the manufacturer must inform the notified body of the reasons for its decision. The notified body must then take corrective measures and issue a certificate or approval decision.
If the manufacturer does not comply with the regulation, it must notify the EU countries of its decision and inform them of any corrective measures taken.
In addition, EU countries are required to take appropriate measures to prevent, detect and remedy any non-compliance.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
It has applied since 1 July 2015. EU countries had to incorporate it into national law by 1 July 2016.
BACKGROUND
 This regulation is one of a series of measures designed to improve the safety and environmental protection of products in the European Union (EU).
For more information, see:
Electromagnetic Compatibility (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Electrical compatibility: the ability of a product to be used by electromagnetic means, such as a light bulb or a light switch, without the need for any additional equipment.
* Fitting: the part or part of a device which is incorporated into an appliance, including the appliance itself, the appliance’s accessories and the fittings.
MAIN DOCUMENT
 			
Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 856/2015 of 12 July 2015 on the harmonisation of the laws of the Member States relating to the safety, conformity assessment and control of appliances and fitted products and repealing Council Directive 2009/142/EC (OJ L 96, 29.4.2015, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (Euratom) 2016/852 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
  (1)
  The European Commission adopts Regulation (CFSP) No 596/2014 of 12 June 2014 on the notification of conformity assessment bodies to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions and amending Regulations (EC, EFTA and the European Free Trade Association) No 1907/2006, (EC), (EC).
See consolidated version.
Commission Decision 2014/30/EU of 26 February 2014 laying down the general principles and procedures for the exercise of the delegated powers conferred on the Commission pursuant to Directive 2014/35/EU.
last update 04.01.2016



Summary 131:
Cross-border transport of euro cash by road: cash-in-transit (CIT)
Cross-based transport of euros
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 1072/2009 on the cross-border cross-Border transport of cash in the euro area
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out rules for the transport by road of euro-denominated cash within the euro zone (Euro area).
It aims to improve the security of the euro and to ensure the smooth functioning of the single currency.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to:
cash in-vehicle (IBNS) transport between participating EU countries;
cross-border cash deliveries/pick-ups;
cash services of national central bank branches or CIT cash centres;
the servicing of off-premises ATMs or other types of cash dispensers.
It does not apply to the carriage of euro banknotes by road.
Participating EU countries may decide that only end-to-end IBNS may be used on their territory for the servicing of ATMs, provided that the same rules apply for domestic CIT transport.
CIT companies must:
ensure that:
the vehicle is of ordinary appearance;
there are at least two CIT security staff per vehicle;
none of the security staff wears a uniform.
The company operating the vehicle is authorised by the competent national authority;
inform the national authority of the country in which it is operating before the start of the transport of the cash;
provide a certificate of origin and destination of the vehicle and of the number of deliveries/picks-up that it may carry out.
EU countries must ensure that CIT vehicles comply with the following requirements:
a certificate of authorisation has been issued by a national authority confirming that the vehicle complies with all the requirements laid down in the regulation;
a CIT company is authorised to carry out the transport within the territory of an EU country;
at least one of the CIT staff must be a national of the EU country of destination;
an annual training module is to be organised for all CIT workers in accordance with the requirements set out in Annex II to the regulation.
Annex III sets out the conditions for the establishment of a national control centre for the operation of CIT companies operating the vehicles.
Each EU country must designate one or more national control centres to be responsible for the implementation of the regulation and for the coordination of its implementation with the other EU countries. The control centre must ensure:
that:
each CIT vehicle is equipped with an emergency number to contact the police authorities in the country where it is being used;
information is provided to the control centre on the conditions relating to the use of the emergency number;
each vehicle is accompanied by an emergency communication tool to allow contact to be made at any time with the control centres of the national authorities and with the competent authorities.
A national authority is responsible for:
monitoring the safety of the vehicles;
checking that the vehicles are being used correctly;
taking the necessary measures to prevent, detect and respond to any irregularities;
keeping a record of any infringements.
FROM WHEN DOES IT APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 January 2011.
BACKGROUND
 
  * KEY TERMS
* CIT: a company that carries out cross-boundary cross-currency transport of money by road between participating countries.
* IBNS: a vehicle used to transport cash in cash in euro denominations of €1, €2, €5, €10, €20, €50, €100 and €500.
ACT
  барсканка гарка  гранскога бългана канданна, гланъкабака,  харглъанта даника and гъшкарна   дъракка (Europass) (European Commission).
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Council Regulation (EU) 2015/856
1.1.2015
-
OJ L 183 of 1.1 January 2015
Amending act(s)
Entry INTO FORCE
  (1) The Member States must notify the European Commission of any amendments to this regulation. The Commission must inform the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions of any such amendments.
last update 14.11.2015



Summary 132:
Information to consumers on the safety and health of food and drink
Information on the safe and wholesome food and beverage information
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 1234/2011 — information to consumers concerning the safety of foodstuffs and beverages
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
   
 
It lays down rules on the information to be provided to consumers about the safety, health and nutrition of food, drinks and food ingredients.
It aims to ensure that food businesses are able to provide consumers with accurate and clear information on the health and safety of their food and drinks.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to:
foods for which the labelling must include at least one or more of the following:
the name, type or category of the food or food ingredients;
the country or country of origin;
a description of the ingredients and the intended use of those ingredients; and
a nutrition declaration.
The information must be provided in a language easily understood by the consumer. It must not be hidden, obscured, detracted from or interrupted by any other written or pictorial matter or any other intervening material.
Labelling must be clearly visible, legible and clearly distinguishable from other information provided by the food business operators.
Information must be clear, understandable and not misleading.
Food businesses must ensure that the following information is clearly visible to the consumer:
a statement of the product’s intended use;
an indication of the quantity of alcohol and/or its alcohol content;
information on the intended for children and pregnant women (not recommended for children or pregnant women);
a warning on the potential risks to the health of infants, young children and the elderly;
instructions on the preparation and storage of food;
any other information that could mislead the consumer, such as a statement of health risks to infants or young children.
In addition, food businesses must indicate the origin of a food and the name of the place of production or place of sale where the food originates.
This must be accompanied by an indication in the format set out in Annex II to the regulation.
Annex III sets out the list of mandatory particulars that must be included in the nutrition declaration (Annex IV sets out a list of the mandatory particulars for each food type and category of food.
Directive 2005/29/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 May 2005 concerning unfair business-to-consumer commercial practices in the internal market (see summary) lays down certain aspects of the protection of consumers against misleading actions and omissions of information.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
The Regulation has applied since 12 December 2011. It had to become law in the EU countries by 12 December 2012.
BACKGROUND
Food business operators are responsible for ensuring that the information they provide to consumers is accurate, clear and understandable.
For more information, see:
‘Health and nutrition information’ on the European Commission's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Food business operator: any person or business that sells food or drinks to consumers, whether directly or indirectly, to a consumer or to a mass caterer.
ACT
  барканска гранка, гълка  гланна бракка and годна  цаксанта: the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA).
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Council Regulation (EC) No 1169/2011
12.12.2011
-
OJ L 183 of 12.12, 2011
Amending act(s)
Entry INTO FORCE
Transposition within the meaning of Article 21(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU
Entry in force
Final date for transposing into the Union the regulation into force (Official Journal L 183, 13.6.2011, pp. 1-2)
Amendment
Entry to the Treaty
Entry on the date of transposition into force for transpose into force of the regulation
Official journal
Regulations (EC, Euratom) No 1099/2008 and (EC), No 1096/2008
Regulating (EC)(1) No 596/2009
Reg Regulation (EU), No 1199/2009 (Official JHA) and Regulation (JHA) No 982/2008 of the Court of Justice of the EC as regards the establishment of a European Union Agency for Food Safety and Health Protection (Euratom) (OJ C 202, 7.8.2009, pp 1-8)
Regulatory (EU, EFSA) No 882/2009 of the General Assembly



Summary 133:
Issuance of euro coins and 2-euro commemorative coins: circulation and collector coins (Regulation (EC) No 1099/2011)
Issuation of euro coin and 2 euro commemorative coin (Regulating Council Regulation (EU) No 1169/2011).
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation 2011/1099/EC — Regulation on the issuance of euro notes and coins
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It lays down the rules for the issuing and circulation of euro banknotes and coins.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to all EU countries whose currency is the euro. It does not apply to non-euro-area countries.
Issues
EU countries may issue 2- and 1-euro euro coins:
circulation coins intended for circulation, the denominations and technical specifications of which are laid down in Regulation (EC), and
collector coins, which are intended for collection that are not issued with a view to their entry into circulation.
The circulation coins are issued in denominations of 1.5 and 2.5 cents.
1.5-euro coins have the status of legal tender only in the issuing EU country.
Collector coins are not legal tender in the EU country in which they are issued. They are issued by the issuing country and are subject to limits per year and per issuing country for the number of issues of each type of coin.
2.2-coin designs
The 2-coin design is designed to commemorate a specific subject and may not be used in circulation coins. The design must not exceed 5 % of the cumulated total net value and volume of circulation coins issued by an EU country, taking into account only years with positive net issuance.
A limited number of 1-sized coins may be put on the market above face value if justified by the special quality of the coin, a special packaging or any additional services provided.
3.3-cent coins may also be issued, subject to certain conditions:
they must not have a shaped edge with fine scallops or a ‘Spanish flower’ shape.
4.4-centre coins may only be issued if they comply with the technical specifications laid down by the European Central Bank (ECB).
5.5.6-cent coin designs may be used only if they do not exceed the limits set by the ECB.
6.7.5 cent coins may not have the shape of a Spanish flower.
7.8.5% of the total number of circulating euro coins must be issued by a country in a calendar year.
8.9.10.2021 and
9.11.2022 and
10.12.2023 and
11.1.2024 and
12.2.2025 and
13.3.2026.
FROM WHEN DOES IT APPLY?
Council Regulation 2011/2010/EC has applied since 1 January 2011.
BACKGROUND
The euro is the single currency of the European Union (EU).
For more information, see:
‘The euro’ on the European Commission's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Circulation coins: coins that are intended to circulate in the euro area and have a value of €1 or €2.
MAIN DOCUMENT
 
    барска гарка  года (Commission Regulation (EEC) 2015/1169 of 20 December 2015 on the regulation on the issue and circulation limits of euro note and euro coin (OJ L 157, 1.1 January 2015, pp. 1-2)
Successive amendments to Regulation (CE) 2015 /1169 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 14.01.2016



Summary 134:
The European Social Fund (ESF) and its activities
The European social fund (ESSF)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 laying down the mission and scope of the European social Fund
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes the EU’s social fund and lays down specific rules for its funding.
It also sets out the specific types of activities that may be financed by the ESF.
KEY POINTS
The ESF supports the EU countries and the regions in order to support, for example, students, job creation, job mobility, the mobility of workers, social inclusion and social entrepreneurship.
The objectives of this regulation are to:
promote the better functioning of labour markets by enhancing the transnational geographical mobility of EU workers;
improve health and safety at work and increasing employability;
encourage the participation of those seeking asylum and refugees in the labour market;
increase participation of disadvantaged people such as the Roma in education and training;
contribute to combating poverty and combating social exclusion;
support the social inclusion of disadvantaged groups such as women, children and people with disabilities.
Funding
The regulation provides for the following types of funding:
investment priorities:
1.
Investment priority ‘community-led local development’;
2.
3.
Support under the investment priority "youth employment initiative (YEI);
4.
5.
Community-led development.
Eligibility of expenditure:
EU countries may decide to allocate a limited amount not exceeding 10% of the funds under the YEI to young persons residing in sub-regions which experience high youth unemployment levels and which are outside the eligible NUTS level 2 regions.
EU governments may also decide to grant grants to young people residing in regions which are not covered by a dedicated priority axis.
Participation:
participants in education/training (e.g. students, young people engaged in job searching, unemployed, inactive, people gaining a qualification upon leaving education or training, people seeking asylum or refugees, people who are vulnerable to social exclusion.
Data collection:
the European Commission must collect and store data for each priority axis;
the data must be collected in a computerised form based on a sample of EU countries’ national data systems;
participation of the partners referred to in Article 5 of Regulation (EC) No 1081/2006 in the implementation of the operational programmes may take the form of global grants as defined in Article 123(7).
The Commission must regularly evaluate the effectiveness, efficiency and impact of ESF support in combating poverty, in particular with regard to disadvantaged people.
Financing:
The EU countries may allocate up to 40 % of the specific allocation for the specific priority axis to the following:
education/training;
job creation;
social inclusion;
migration;
employment;
health and safety;
transnational mobility;
education and training.
In addition, the Commission may provide financial support to the European network of employment services (EURES) in relation to recruitment and related information, advice and guidance services at national and cross-border level.
Rights and obligations of the EU institutions:
Each EU country must designate one or more bodies responsible for the management of the financial resources allocated to it under this regulation.
FROM WHEN DOES THE REGUMENT APPLY?
   
 
It has applied since 1 January 2014 and had to become law in the EU Member States by 1 January 2015.
BACKGROUND
The social fund was established under the Treaty on European Union (TFEU).
For more information, see:
‘European Social Fund’ on the European Commission's website.
MAIN DOCUMENT
  (PDF)
  барска гранда нарка, гълганка  глана какова,  ханца ванта далка and года заканна (European social fund).
Successive amendments to this regulation have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
 			  	 
Commission Decision 2014/856/EU of 11 December 2014 on the application of the Regulation to the Community-led Local Development Instrument (CLDI) (OJ L 347, 12.12.2014, pp. 1-2)
Commission Implementing Decision (EU, Euratom) 2015/849 of 12 December 2015 on the implementation by the Member States of the Community’ s Community-Led Local Development Initiative (CIDI) and repealing Decision (



Summary 135:
European statistics on population and vital events (e.g. birth, death, migration and death)
Eastern Europe (European statistics)
Establishing a common framework for the development, production and dissemination of European statistics on demographic statistics (e-statistics)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 223/2009/EC — the European statistical framework
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes a common EU-wide framework for developing, producing and disseminating statistics on the European Union’s (EU) population and on vital events.
KEY POINTS
Each year, EU countries must provide the European Commission (Eurostat) with data on the total population at national level and on the number of deaths and births in each EU country, as well as information on:
live births by sex, month of occurrence, live birth-order, mother‘s age, country of birth, mother's country of citizenship and mother's region of residence;
deaths by age, sex, year of birth and country of residence.
The data are used to assess the long-term sustainability and quality of public finances of EU countries’ public finances on the basis of population projections produced by Eurostat.
Each EU country must transmit the data to Eurostat in accordance with the NUTS classification, which is based on the population of the country in which the data are to be transmitted. The data are broken down by territorial unit (i.e. the country of origin or country of nationality).
Eurostat then forwards the information to the Economic and Financial Affairs Committee (EACFiscal Affairs Committee, which assesses the sustainability of EU public finances and the quality of the public finances based on Eurostat statistics.
EU countries must ensure that the information they transmit to the Commission is accurate, comparable and up-to-date. The Commission then forwards this information to EAFRICOM (the European Agency for the Safety and Health of the European Communities) which then forwards it to the European Statistical System of Central Statistics (ESSC).
The Commission is responsible for examining the data transmitted by the EU countries and for ensuring that they comply with the requirements laid down in the regulation.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLACE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE?
The regulation entered into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal.
BACKGROUND
Annual demographic statistics are fundamental for the study and definition of a wide range of policies, with particular regard to social and economic issues, at national and regional level.
For more information, see:
‘Population’ on the Eurostat website.
* KEY TERMS
* Total population: the total number of people in an EU country.
ACT
Council Regulation (EC), Euratom, Euratom of 11 July 2009 laying down the European statistics framework (E-stat)
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Decision 2009/223/EC
20.7.2009
-
OJ L 165 of 20.7, 2009
Amending act(s)
Entry in force
Date of entry into force
Final date for implementation in the member States
Decisions 2009/222/EC and 2009/233/EC (Official Journal L 165, 20.8.2009, pp. 1-2)
Regulations (EC, EFTA, EU) No 596/2008 and (EC).
- (EU).
last update 04.11.2016



Summary 136:
Labelling and marking of textile products
Labeling and marking: labelling and markings
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 596/2004 on the labelling of textiles
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It lays down rules to ensure that textile products are clearly identifiable by their fibre names and the descriptions of their composition.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to all textile products, including:
wool, carded cotton, cotton twine, unbleached cotton, rayon, woolen twine and woolen tows;
cotton and rayon;
fibre mixtures of wool, cotton and rayonet;
wax used in mountaineering and water sports.
Labelling
Textile products must bear the following information:
the fibre name (e.g. ‘cotton’, ‘wool’), ‘carded cotton’ or ‘unbleached’;
the composition of the fibre;
a description of the fibres used in the product.
This information must be accompanied by a picture of the product and a description of its characteristics.
The information must not be confused with the information provided by the EU countries’ national authorities.
EU countries must ensure that any information supplied by the economic operators is clearly distinguishable from the information contained in the regulation.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULATED REGULATIONS APPLY?
 
It has applied since 1 January 2005.
It had to become law in the European Union (EU) Member States by 1 January 2006.
BACKGROUND
   
For more information, see:
‘Textiles’ on the European Commission’s website.
* KEY TERMS
* Textile product: any item of clothing or material intended to be used for the production, presentation or sale of a textile.
ACT
Council Regulation (EC), Euratom, Euratom of 12 December 2004 on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to the making available on the market of certain textile products and their labelling, and repealing Council Regulation (Euratom) No 696/2003
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Regulations (EC and Euratom).
1.1.2005
-
OJ L 347 of 1.12.2005, pp. 1-8
Amending act(s)
Entry INTO FORCE
Date of entry into force - Date of expiry (if different from the date indicated in the original act)
Deadlines for transposing in the Official Journal
Directive 2006/96/EC
1 January 2007
1 February 2007
-   The date of application of Directive 2006/97/EC (see summary)
1 March 2008
1 April 2008
- The date on which the regulation entered into force was amended by Decision 2006/98/EC.
Last updated: 30.08.2006



Summary 137:
European Maritime and Fisheries Fund (EMFF) — rules for the European Maritime and fisheries Fund and the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) (revised by Regulation (EU) 2019/1380)
European Maritime & Fisheries Fund — rules governing the European maritime and fisheries fund (EMDF)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2019 / 1380/2013 — rules laying down the rules on the EU’s contribution to the common fisheries fund and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1083/2006
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out the rules and procedures for the EU's contribution to support for the EAFF.
KEY POINTS
The EAFDF is the European Union's (EU's) main fisheries fund. It is funded by the European Commission and is managed by the EU countries.
The CFP is the main instrument of the EU fisheries policy. It aims to support the sustainable development of the marine environment and the sustainable management of fisheries in the EU.
It has a budget of €2.8 billion for the period 2014-2027.
Funding
The European Maritime Fund is the largest fisheries fund in the world. It supports projects in the field of fisheries and fisheries management. It has an annual budget of around €1.5 billion.
Its main objectives are to:
promote sustainable growth and jobs;
improve the quality of fishing and aquaculture;
encourage the sustainable use of marine resources;
contribute to the conservation of marine life;
support the sustainable fishing;
increase marine biodiversity and marine protected areas;
reduce the impact of fishing on the environment;
ensure the sustainability of fishing fleets;
provide financial support for projects that contribute to marine research and development;
facilitate cooperation between EU countries on the implementation of marine research.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
   
It entered into force on 1 January 2019.
BACKGROUND
The EMFF is one of the three main instruments of the European Fisheries Fund. The other instruments are:
the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD);
the EU Fisheries Fund for Scientific Research and Innovation (FARE), which supports research and innovation (R&I) in the fields of fisheries;
the Fund for the Protection of the Marine Environment (FPM), which provides financial support to the European Marine Environment Agency (EMEA).
For more information, see:
‘Funding for sustainable growth’ on the European Agency for Safety and Health at Work's website.
* KEY TERMS
* EAFRD: the European Fund for Strategic Investments (EMF).
* FARE: this is the fund's main instrument for providing financial support. It provides the EU with the financial resources it needs to implement its fisheries policy objectives.
MAIN DOCUMENT
 			
Council Regulation (Euratom) 2018/1234 of 11 December 2018 laying down rules on how the European Community contributes to the Common Fisheries Fund, and repealing Decision 2004/7/EC (OJ L 347, 20.12.2018, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EA) 2018 /1234 have been incorporated in the basic text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
 
  (1) The European Commission communication on the establishment of a common fisheries policy (COM(2018) 696 final, 11.12-2016)
See consolidated version.
Commission communication of 11 March 2018 on the creation of a European Fisheries Policy (EFP) (COM (2018) 796 final of 11.3.2018)
last update 12.01.2019



Summary 138:
Insurance-based investment products — key information and product information
Insurance - key information & product information and marketing
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010 on the marketing of investment products
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to ensure that investment products are clearly identifiable and clearly distinguishable from other investment products.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to all investment products, whether or not they are covered by insurance.
It does not apply to investment products that are not covered by the EU’s financial stability directive (see summary).
It applies to products which are not directly linked to the financial markets and which are designed to provide investors with investment solutions that do not involve buying or holding assets themselves.
The key information document (KIC) is a document that contains information on a product, such as:
the investment objectives and risks;
a description of how the product works;
the risks associated with the investment product;
investment objectives and investment risks.
Key information document
The KIC must be clearly identifiable, separate from any marketing communications and must contain:
a summary of the investment objectives, risks and investment objectives;
an indication of the expected investment outcome;
information on the risks and benefits associated with an investment product, including a description of the risk/recovery ratio and a risk-benefit ratio;
how the product is expected to perform in the event of a significant change in the value of the underlying investment assets;
instructions on how to invest in the investment assets.
A KICs must be accompanied by an English translation of the product information provided by the manufacturer.
An EU country must ensure that the KIC is translated into a language easily understood by the end-users.
EU countries must also ensure that:
inform the European Insurance Information Office (EIOPA) and the European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) of all the products covered by this regulation;
ensure that the European Commission adopts the technical standards applicable to all products within the scope of this regulation.
Regulatory technical standards
The European Commission must adopt technical standards relating to the technical specifications applicable to the products listed in Annex I to the regulation. The Commission must report to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions on whether these technical standards are compatible with the European System of Central Banks’ (ESCB) classification of investment instruments and with those of the European Investment Bank (EIB).
The Commission must also report on whether those technical standards provide for reliable and accurate calculations for all products in its scope.
Implementation of the regulation
Implementing Regulation (EC) No 596/2013 lays down the rules for the implementation of the Regulation.
Amending Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2019/856 introduces a new type of product information document to be used by the EIOPA. This document must contain the following information:
information about the investment objective and the risks involved in investing in investment products;
actual investment results;
explanations for investment decisions;
procedures to be followed when making investment decisions and investment strategies;
recommendations for the use of investment strategies and investment instruments;
adoption of investment policies and investment procedures;
assessment of risks and risks related to investment instruments.
In addition, the regulation sets out the responsibilities of the EU country responsible for supervising the supervision of the market for investment products (EU country).
Amendments to Regulation (EEC) 2017/1369
The amending regulation has been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
FROM WHEN DOES THE REGUMENT APPLY?
   
 
It has applied since 1 January 2011 and had to become law in the EU countries by 1 January 2012.
BACKGROUND
  * KEY TERMS
* Investment product: a product that provides investors with a means of investment with a view to providing them with investment results.
* Insurance investment product: an investment solution that is not a direct connection with the financial market and does not involve the purchase or holding of an asset.
MAIN DOCUMENT
 			````````````	````		
Commission Regulation (U.S.A. No 1096/2010 of 12 December 2010 on the market monitoring and product inspection of investment product information (OJ L 347, 14.12.2010, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation(U. S.A) No 1070/2010 have been incorporated in to the original document and have become incorporated in the basic text.
See consolidated version.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
Council Directive 2009/138/EC of 27 December 2009 on the establishment of a European Investment Fund and amending Council Directive 2004/96/EC (O J L 347 of



Summary 139:
Resolution of failing banks and the Single Resolution Mechanism (SRM) — rules for the early intervention and resolution of failed banks
Resolving failing banks
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 575/2014 — rules on the resolution and resolution powers of the European system of banking supervision
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out the rules on how the European System of Banking Supervision (ESM) works.
It aims to ensure that the European Union (EU), the European Central Bank (ECB) and the national authorities involved in resolving failing banks are able to resolve failing banks quickly and effectively.
KEY POINTS
The regulation sets out rules on:
the structure of the ESCM;
the role of the ECB and national authorities in the resolution process; and
the rules on cooperation and information exchange between the ECB, national authorities and the ECB.
The ESCM is the EU’s single resolution mechanism. It aims to:
ensure that failing banks can be brought to resolution as quickly as possible;
provide a single point of entry for resolving a failing bank;
facilitate cooperation between national authorities, the ECB or the national competent authority, the Board and the relevant national resolution authorities;
promote the use of resolution tools;
improve the efficiency of the resolution procedure;
reduce the time it takes for banks to come to a resolution;
protect client funds and client assets;
increase the effectiveness of the system of resolution; and improve the transparency of the process.
FROM WHEN DOES THE REGUMENT APPLACE IN FORCE?
  
It has applied since 19 August 2014 and had to become law in the EU Member States by 19 August 2016.
BACKGROUND
The ECB is responsible for the resolution of failing banking institutions. It is assisted by the European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA), which is the competent national authority in the Member States.
For more information, see:
Resolution and resolution tools (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Resolution: the procedure by which a failing financial institution is brought to the resolution stage.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2015/852/EU of 19 August 2015 laying down the rules and procedures for the implementation of Regulation (Euratom) No 479/2014 on the Resolution and Resolution Powers of the Central Bank and of the National Authorities in the event of a failure of a Member State to resolve a failing Bank (OJ L 173, 12.8.2015, pp. 1-8)
RELATED DOCUMENTS
Council Directive 2014/59/EU on the establishment of a European Stability Mechanism and repealing Directive 2002/47/EC, 2004/25/EC and 2005/56/EC (Official Journal L 173 of 12.9.2014, pp 1-7)
Directive 2014/60/EU establishing a European System for the Early Intervention and Resolution of Bank Negotiations (SSRM) and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 648/2012 ( Official Journal L 183, 13.7.2014)
last update 04.01.2016



Summary 140:
Noise-related operating restrictions at European Union airports (until 14 June 2023) (see Annex II)
Noise - noisier air transport
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) 2018/852 — noise-related restrictions at airports
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
   
 
It aims to reduce the impact of noise on human health and the environment at EU airports.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to all airports in the European Union (EU).
It does not apply to airports in non-EU countries.
It requires EU countries to assess the noise situation at their airports and to adopt measures to reduce it.
EU countries must ensure that:
noise performance information is reliable, accurate and up-to-date;
airport authorities are transparent and transparent;
measures are proportionate, proportionate and non-discriminatory;
there is no discrimination based on nationality or identity;
no one airport is excluded from the scope of the regulation.
Airport authorities must take the necessary measures to:
ensure that air traffic management network capacity at an airport is not affected by noise;
monitor the performance of the airport, including the number of aircraft operating at the airport;
implement noise abatement measures to achieve the objectives set out in Annex II to the regulation;
take all appropriate measures to ensure that the noise levels are reduced or eliminated;
establish and maintain an effective monitoring system.
The European Union Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) is responsible for monitoring and evaluating the implementation of the measures adopted by the EU countries and the EASA.
Exemption for aircraft operations of an exceptional nature
The competent authorities may, on a case-by-case basis, grant an exemption for an aircraft operating in an airport in an exceptional situation.
Where an EU country grants an exemption, it must notify the competent authorities of the other EU countries, the Commission and the European Parliament and the Council of the reasons for the decision.
If an airport does not comply with the regulation’s requirements, it may be subject to an operating restriction.
A regular assessment of the situation at airports is carried out every 2 years.
An airport is assessed every 5 years and the results of the assessment are published in the Official Journal of the European Commission.
In the case of an airport which is subject to a regular assessment, the competent authority must:
assess the impact on the health and safety of the population and of the environment of the area concerned;
identify the measures to be taken by the airport in order to achieve its objectives;
make a decision on the application of the decision within 6 months of receiving the information;
draw up an action plan to address the issues arising from the assessment;
decide whether to adopt any new measures.
Amendments to Regulation (EC) No 2096/2005
The Commission has adopted a number of delegated acts to implement the regulation, including:
Delegated Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2019/849 amending Regulation (Euratom) No 691/2010 laying down a performance scheme for air navigation services and network functions and amending Regulations (EC, EFTA) No 1296/2004 and (EC), No 1297/2005 laying down common requirements for the provision of air navigation and network services (OJ L 201, 3.8.2019, pp. 1-8)
Deregulation (EC)(1) 2019 (see summary) amends Regulation (EA) No 1099/2013 laying down the conditions for the exercise of the powers conferred on the Commission in relation to the exercise by the Commission of the power to adopt delegated acts.
FROM WHEN DOES THE REGUMENT APPLY?
The Regulation has applied since 14 June 2018 and had to become law in the EU Member States by 14 June 2021.
BACKGROUND
 The regulation is part of a package of measures designed to improve the sound-level management of air traffic at EU countries’ airports. It complements Directive 2002/49/EC on the harmonisation of the laws of the Member States in the field of noise.
For more information, see:
Airports (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Aeronautical noise: the noise emitted by an aircraft as a result of the operation of the aircraft.
* Noise: the sound emitted by the aircraft in the air as a consequence of the operating activities of an aircraft, in accordance with the rules of the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO).
* Noise: the level of noise emitted from an aircraft in an aircraft at which an aircraft is operating.
MAIN DOCUMENT
  Егранска ганданна банка, гългарка  глана



Summary 141:
Cross-border insolvency proceedings in the EU
Cross-Border insolvencies in the European Union (EU)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 596/2008 — cross-border proceedings in insolvencations
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
   
It aims to improve the application of the law of the EU in the event of a company’s bankruptcy.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to:
bankruptcy proceedings;
securitisation proceedings; and
secondary bankruptcy proceedings.
It does not apply to the following situations:
the liquidation of an insolvent company;
the winding-up of a business; or
the sequestration of a bank or other financial institution.
Application of the regulation
It applies to cases where:
a company is insolvent;
it has ceased or is likely to cease to exist;
its assets have been sold or are being liquidated;
a debtor has not been able to pay its creditors;
an insolvent business has been declared insolvent or has ceased to exist.
The debtor has the right to seek a court order to prevent or prevent the bankruptcy of the company or to prevent it from going into liquidation.
In addition, the regulation provides for a number of other possibilities, such as:
group coordination proceedings (i.e. the formation of a group of persons or bodies to coordinate the course of the proceedings in order to avoid bankruptcy proceedings);
the establishment of a court-supervised group coordination proceedings, in which all the parties are represented by the same person or body;
closer cooperation between the parties in the case of the same company or business;
confidentiality of the information exchanged by the parties during the group coordination process;
guaranteeing the protection of employees’ claims against the insolvent companies;
appointment of a bankruptcy trustee;
protection of the interests of the employees of the debtor;
recognition and enforceability of judgments.
Amending Regulation (EU-wide)
The amending regulation introduces a new type of group coordination procedure. It allows for the creation of a ‘group coordination procedure’ in cases where the debtor is unable or unwilling to participate in the proceedings themselves. This procedure allows the parties to agree on the terms and conditions of participation of the parties.
Participation in group coordination procedures is voluntary. The parties are not obliged to take any of the following actions:
participation by the debtor in the main or secondary proceedings, including the appointment of the bankruptcy trustee, the appointment by the court of the country in which the proceedings have been opened, and the choice of the liquidator;
adoption of a plan to avoid the proceedings, which must be approved by the competent court of that country.
Cooperation between parties
The parties are required to take all necessary steps to ensure that the proceedings are conducted in a way that ensures the proper functioning of the system and that the parties’ interests are respected.
A group coordination plan must be drawn up in accordance with the national law of each EU country. It must contain the following information:
details of the nature and content of the agreement between the debtor and the parties;
information on the nature, content and duration of the undertaking;
details on the steps to be taken by the party to avoid or avoid secondary proceedings. The undertaking must be made in writing.
Appointment of an administrator
The competent court appoints an administrator, who is responsible for:
appointing the administrator, appointing the administrator and appointing the person responsible for the administration of the case;
implementing the regulation, in particular by:
establishing a national insolvence register;
drawing up a list of the persons and bodies covered by the regulation;
designating the person or bodies whose interests are to be represented by an administrator or the person in charge of the administration;
amending the list of persons who may be appointed by the appointed person.
Implementing Regulation (EEC) 2019/856
The implementing regulation amends the implementing regulation and introduces the following new rules:
instructions to be given to the parties before the opening of proceedings (main or secondary);
rules to be adopted by the European Court of Justice;
rules on the right of access to the court and to the information to be made available to the public.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
It has applied since 1 January 2009 and had to become law in the Member States by 1 January 2011.
BACKGROUND
 
  The regulation is one of the main instruments of the European Commission‘s effort to modernise and streamline the national laws of the Member State in which it is applicable.
For more information, see:
‘The European Union’ on the Commission's website.
MAIN



Summary 142:
Limitation of liability for maritime claims
Limitations of liability in the event of maritime accidents
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 596/2008 on the application of the International Convention on Limitation of Liability for Maritime Claims
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to ensure that insurance companies are not liable for damage caused to passengers in maritime accidents.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to the liability of insurance companies for the carriage of passengers and their luggage by sea and to the loss of or damage to their luggage.
It does not apply to:
carriage of passengers by sea;
the carriage of goods by sea.
Limits of liability
Carriers and their performing carriers are liable for:
death and personal injury;
damage to passengers’ personal property;
loss of and damage to the luggage of passengers.
The liability of the carrier and the performing carrier is based on the following principles:
the carrier is liable for the total amount of damage caused by the passenger, including any loss or damage resulting from the negligence of the passenger or the negligence or recklessness of a passenger.
If the passenger fails to comply with this principle, he or she is presumed to have acted with the intent to cause such damage, or recklessly and with knowledge that such damage would probably result.
In relation to the carriage performed by a performing carrier, the aggregate of the amounts recoverable from the carriers and performing carriers and from their servants and agents acting within the scope of their employment shall not exceed the highest amount which could be awarded against either the carrier or the performing carriers under this Convention, but none of the persons mentioned shall be liable for a sum in excess of the limit applicable to him or her.
Liability of the insurer
The insurer is liable only for its part of the total liability of a carrier or performing carrier. The insurer is not entitled to benefit from the benefit of any other person’s insurance policy.
Insurers are also liable for any damage to passengers:
damage caused by an accident;
death or personal injury resulting from an act or omission by a passenger;
luggage loss resulting from a delay in the arrival of the luggage;
delays resulting from labour disputes;
delay resulting from any action taken to prevent the luggage from being re-delivered.
An insurance company is not liable if:
it has not complied with its obligations under the regulation;
it does not have the financial means to cover the risks involved;
in the absence of an insurance policy, it is not obliged to cover these risks.
Amendments to the convention
The convention has been amended several times, most recently by the Protocol of 2002 to the Convention. The most recent amendment was adopted in 2015.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULATING APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 January 2012.
BACKGROUND
The Convention is one of a series of international agreements that aim to protect passengers against maritime accidents and to ensure a high level of protection for them.
For more information, see:
‘Limitations on liability’ on the European Commission's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Carriage: a means of transport by sea in which a passenger is transferred from one place to another, usually by land, by means of the means of a vessel or by sea craft.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EC), Euratom, Euratom of 13 December 2008 on the exercise of the right of the Member States to express their consent to be bound by the Convention relating to the Carriage of Passengers and their Luggage by Sea, 1976 (OJ L 347, 14.12.2008, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EEC) 2016/849 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
 
  (1) The United Kingdom withdraws from the European Union and becomes a third country (non-EU country) as of 1 January 2020. This is due to the entry into force of the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU and the accession of Iceland to the EU.
last update 14.01.2020



Summary 143:
Framework for the development of freight corridors in the European Union (EU)
Framework Framework for the Development of freight networks
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 596/2010 on the framework for the creation of a European freight corridor
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes a framework for establishing and managing freight corridors* in the EU.
It sets out the general objectives and tasks of the European Commission and the EU countries.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to the following freight corridors:
the crossing by the freight corridor of the territory of at least three EU countries, or of two EU countries if the distance between the terminals is greater than 500 km;
the consistency of the freight corridors with the TEN (Trans-European Transport Network).
The objectives and scope of the framework are set out in the annex to the regulation.
The framework for each freight corridor is based on the following principles:
mutual benefit;
non-discriminatory access to international rail services;
quality of service;
consistency with the other rail networks in the area;
fair competition between the different rail networks.
Governance
Each EU country must establish an executive board responsible for defining the general objective and taking the measures necessary to achieve the objectives of the corridor. The executive board is assisted by a management board. The management board takes its decisions, including decisions regarding its legal status, the establishment of its organisational structure, resources and staffing, on the basis of mutual consent of the infrastructure managers.
A management board is responsible for the allocation of infrastructure capacity.
Investment in the freight freight corridors
The management board determines the investment plans for investment in freight corridors. The investment plans must be approved by the management board and the executive board. Investment planning must take into account the needs of the users and the economic situation of the area concerned.
Quality of service
The executive board must ensure that:
traffic is carried out in accordance with the EU’s legislation on the carriage of goods and passengers by rail;
freight traffic is handled by a single railway company or a single rail company;
services are provided by one or more rail companies operating on the same railway network.
Management of the network
The EU countries must ensure:
that:
fees are paid by the operators of the rail infrastructure concerned;
finance is provided by the European Investment Bank (EIB);
the cost of the investment is borne by the railway companies;
transparency is ensured;
information is shared between the national authorities and the bodies responsible for monitoring the performance of the railway infrastructure.
FROM WHEN DOES THE REGUMENT APPLY?
 
   
It has applied since 7 July 2010.
BACKGROUND
  * KEY TERMS
* Freight corridor: an international rail route which provides a means of transport for goods, passengers and freight between two or more EU countries or between them and a non-EU country.
* TEN: the top 10 busiest freight routes in the world, as defined by the International Classification System (ICS).
*MAIN DOCUMENT
 			
Council Regulation (EC), Euratom, Euratom of 27 June 2010 on the Framework for establishing a European Freight Corridor (OJ L 183, 7.7.2010, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EEC) 2018/856 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
  (1)
  The European Commission adopts Regulation (EU, EC) No 652/2010 of 7 June 2010 laying down the general principles and procedures for the establishment and management of a freight corridor and amending Regulations (EC, EFTA and Euratom) No 496/2009, (EC and EFTA) No 1052/2009 and (EU), (EC).
last update 14.01.2020



Summary 144:
Road transport: common rules for road transport operators (Regulation (EC) No 596/2008 — common rules on the authorisation of road transport undertakings
Road transport : common rules in the EU
SUMMARY OF:
Delegated Regulation (EU) 2016/852 — common EU rules on road transport
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
   
 
It sets out common rules to ensure that road transport companies are authorised to operate in the field of road transportation.
It aims to improve the quality of road traffic and to improve transparency in the internal market.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to all road transport enterprises in the European Union (EU).
It does not apply to undertakings operating in the transport of goods by road.
Authorisation
An undertaking is authorised to engage in the occupation of the road transport operator if it meets the following conditions:
it satisfies the conditions laid down in the regulation:
its establishment is established in an EU country;
it is established by a competent authority designated by the competent authority of the EU country in which it is established;
its activities are carried out in accordance with the rules set out in this regulation;
the authorisation is valid for a period of 5 years;
there are no restrictions on the number of persons authorised to carry out the activities of the undertaking.
Certificates of good repute and equivalent documents
The competent authorities of EU countries must recognise the following certificates and documents as proof of professional competence:
a certificate issued by an authority of one or more EU countries;
a declaration made by an undertaking established in another EU country and valid for 5 years or more;
certificates issued by a body recognised by a national authority established in a non-EU country.
EU countries may refuse to recognise certificates or documents if they do not comply with the above conditions.
Procedure for the suspension and withdrawal of authorisations
An EU country may suspend or withdraw an authorisation if it considers that an undertaking no longer fulfils the requirements of the regulation. It must inform the Commission of the reasons for its decision and of the measures to be taken if it is found that the applicant no longer meets these requirements.
Penalties
The Commission must draw up a list of categories, types and degrees of seriousness of serious infringements of EU rules which, in addition to those listed in Annex IV, may lead to the loss of the company’s authorisation, or to the suspension or withdrawal of its authorisation.
The penalties provided for are effective, proportionate and dissuasive.
National electronic register
Each EU country must keep a national electronic register of all undertakings which have been authorised by its competent authority.
This register must be made publicly accessible to the public and must contain:
the names and addresses of all the undertakings with which it has been granted authorisation;
all the information relating to each transport operation, and in particular those relating to the vehicle, the driver, the goods and luggage;
any changes to the approved documents;
details of the number and type of vehicles and their components (chassis, engine, transmission system, braking system, etc.);
the number, type and number of journeys per vehicle, per kilometre, per journey or per tonne of goods transported;
information on the costs per vehicle and per journey of each operation, including the total cost of each journey per vehicle.
In addition, the Commission must establish an EU-wide list of undertakings that have been suspended or withdrawn from authorisation because they have not complied with this regulation.
FROM WHEN DOES THE LEGULATION APPLY?
It has applied since 4 December 2008 and had to become law in all EU countries by 4 December 2011.
BACKGROUND
The European Commission has adopted a number of implementing acts to modernise the regulation, including:
Directive 96/26/EC of the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions on the harmonisation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to road transport (see summary);
Decision 1999/468/EC on the comparability of vocational training qualifications between the EU countries (OJ L 199, 31.7.1999, pp. 56-57);
Regulation 2007/849/EC (see amending acts) (see below).
KEY TERMS
  * Authorisation: a decision by an EU authority to authorise an undertaking to pursue the occupation or to provide services in the activity of transport.
* Authorised: a certificate or other document issued by the authority of a Member State to which an undertaking has been authorised to provide transport services.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council delegated Regulation (EEC) 2015/856 of 4 December 2015 laying down common rules concerning the exercise of the right of establishment and the right to provide road transport services (



Summary 145:
Social security — mutual recognition of claims between EU countries’ social security institutions
Social security – mutual recognition in cases of unemployment and long-term care
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 883/2004 on the mutual recognition and recognition of social security claims between Member States
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to improve the way in which social security benefits are shared between the social security systems of the Member States.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to all EU citizens who are entitled to benefit from social security in more than one Member State, irrespective of their place of residence or where they live or work.
It does not apply to people who are covered by the national social security legislation of their country of residence.
Beneficiaries must be able to access benefits only from their Member State of residence if they are:
employed or self-employed;
living in another Member State (i.e. it is permanent or of an ad hoc or temporary nature);
employed; or
employed in a non-EU country (e.g. not in the EU country where they are resident).
It also applies to:
people covered by national social protection legislation;
self-employed people;
persons who are not self employed;
people who are unemployed;
those who have left the European Union (EU country of employment).
The following are excluded from the scope of the regulation:
non-EU nationals;
individuals who are resident in a Member State other than the one in which is the subject of its national legislation.
Persons who do not covered by this regulation.
People covered by Regulation (EU countries may not benefit from the regulation if they do not live in the same Member State as the person covered by it. However, they may be entitled to benefits from the Member State in which they are insured, provided that these periods do not overlap.
In addition, the regulation provides for a number of additional rights, including:
reimbursement of claims;
recovery of claims in cash or in kind;
recovery of claims on the basis of actual expenditure;
the right to be informed of any changes to the legislation applicable to their case;
access to the information necessary to calculate unemployment benefits, in particular the salary or professional income received.
Amendments to the basic regulation
The basic regulation has been amended several times. The most recent amendments are as follows:
In 2014, the European Commission adopted a regulation (EU Implementing Regulation) laying down common rules for the application of the basic Regulation.
The new rules apply from 1 January 2016. The regulation repeals Regulation (EC), which had to become law in all Member States by 1 January 2017.
FROM WHEN DOES THE REGUMENT APPLY?
   
 
It has applied since 1 January 2004.
BACKGROUND
  (European Commission)
Social Security (European Agency for Safety and Health Insurance at Work).
KEY TERMS
* Social security: the system of social protection provided by the European Social Fund (ESF), the European Insurance Fund (EIF) and the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF).
* Long-term-care benefit: the type of care provided in the event of death, illness or disability.
* Employment: the period of employment, sickness or occupational illness during which a person is entitled to receive unemployment benefits.
MAIN DOCUMENT
 			````	````````````		
Council Regulation of 25 December 2004 laying down the general principles and procedures relating to mutual recognition, recognition and recovery of claims (OJ L 321, 30.12.2004, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EJ L 31, 1.2.2006, pp.)
last update 04.11.2016



Summary 146:
Statistical data collection in the fields of public health and health and safety at work (2008-2013)
Statistical information on public and private health
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 852/2008 — statistical data collection and dissemination in the areas of public and public health
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to establish a European statistical system for the collection of statistics on the causes of death and the quality of health care in the European Union (EU).
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to all EU countries, except Denmark, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway, Switzerland and the United Kingdom (1).
It does not apply to the EU’s Member States (1), Iceland, Norway and Switzerland.
It applies to data collected by the European Commission (Eurostat) and the European Data Protection Supervisor (EDPS).
EU countries are required to ensure that the data collected are comparable to those collected in other EU countries.
Data collection
Eurostat collects the data in the following areas:
public health
health care
health and social protection
social protection
preventive and curative measures (e.g. prevention, diagnosis, treatment, monitoring, etc.).
The data are collected by Eurostat on the following subjects:
deaths (deaths up to the age of 28 months and deaths up to and including neonatal deaths);
prevention, diagnosis and treatment of health problems;
treatment of physical and psychosocial health problems.
The aim of this domain is to provide comparable, comparable and comparable data and information on all the causes and consequences of death.
Health care
The Commission is responsible for collecting the data for all the subjects covered by this regulation. It is assisted by the EDPS, the European Monitoring Centre for Health and Social Policy (EMC), the European Health Statistics Office (EHSSO) and Eurostat.
Quality
The quality of the health care is considered in the data collection, as is the level of protection of the personal data of EU citizens.
Evaluation of the data
The evaluation of the results of the regulation is carried out by the Eurostat, the EPCS and the ESDS.
FROM WHEN DOES THE REGULARATION APPLY?
   
 
It has applied since 1 January 2009.
BACKGROUND
  (European Commission)
The European Statistical System (ESS) is the main instrument for collecting and disseminating health information and knowledge in the EU.
For more information, see:
‘Health statistics’ on Eurostat's website.
KEY TERMS
* Public health: statistics on health, social protection and preventive measures.
* Social protection: measures taken to protect the health and well-being of people, especially children and vulnerable groups, such as the elderly, vulnerable groups such as pregnant women, children with disabilities and the disabled, and their families, and the vulnerable groups (such as the disabled and the elderly).
* Health care: the provision of quality, safe and high-quality health care, including the assessment and assessment of the quality and safety of health services.
MAIN DOCUMENT
  Егланска гранда барка, гълганка  гарна какова,  халка (OJ L 127, 1.4.2009, pp. 1-2)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 752/08 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
 			(1) The European Commission adopts Decision No 1350/2007/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 October 2007 establishing a second programme of Community action in the field of health (2008–2013) (see summary).
This Decision establishes the framework for the establishment of a Community statistical system in the area of occupational safety and health (2007-2012).
See consolidated version.
last update 14.01.2016



Summary 147:
Data on job vacancies
Data on employment vacancies
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 596/2004 — production of job vacancy statistics
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
   
 
It lays down the rules for the production of EU-wide job vacancy data.
KEY POINTS
The purpose of the regulation is to ensure that EU countries provide the European Commission (Eurostat) with reliable, comparable and up-to-date data on the employment situation in the European Union (EU).
The data cover all economic activities defined by the common classification system for economic activities in the EU (NACE) in force, except for the activities of households as employers and activities of extraterritorial organisations and bodies.
EU countries must compile the data with reference to specific reference dates, which are determined by Eurostat in accordance with the regulation’s technical specifications.
Eurostat must transmit the data to Eurostat within 3 months of the end of the quarter in which the data are to be collected. The data must be transmitted in the form of:
quarterly data;
year-by-year data; and
seasonally adjusted data*.
The statistical programme committee is consulted by the European Parliament and the Council on the implementation of this regulation.
The Commission is responsible for ensuring the quality and reliability of the data transmitted by EU countries.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
The regulation has applied since 1 January 2005.
BACKGROUND
The Regulation is one of a series of measures designed to improve the quality of EU statistics. The other measures include:
the creation of a common statistical framework for EU countries’ statistical information;
the harmonisation of national statistical systems,
the establishment of a European statistical system for the collection and transmission of data on economic activities (the European Statistical System for Employment and Social Affairs (ESSA);
the introduction of the European Employment Statistics System (ESS), which is based on the NACE classification system.
For more information, see:
‘Job vacancy statistics’ on Eurostat's website.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Council Decision 2005/856/EC
1.1.2005
-
OJ L 183 of 1.1 of the following month
RELATED ACTS
Council Regulation (EU) 2015/849 of 11 December 2015 on the harmonisation and transmission by Member States of data relating to employment statistics (Official Journal L 347 of 12.12.2015).
last update 04.01.2016



Summary 148:
Motor vehicles using hydrogen: type-approval and test procedures for hydrogen components and systems (Regulation (EC) No 596/2008)
Motor vehicles with hydrogen: test procedures and certification
SUMMARY OF:
Directive 2008/43/EC on the type–approval of hydrogen for motor vehicles
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
  
It lays down common technical requirements for the type‑approval, testing and certification of hydrogen components* and systems* for use in motor vehicles.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to:
motor vehicles designed to use compressed (gaseous) hydrogen;
compulsory hydrogen storage or usage;
new forms of hydrogen storage* and additional hydrogen components;
vehicles with a propulsion system.
It does not apply to hydrogen components, other than containers, which are intended to be used for the storage or use of hydrogen.
Requirements for the installation of hydrogen systems
Vehicles must have the following characteristics:
a propulsion system capable of operating at the maximum allowable working pressure (MAWP) and then back to atmospheric pressure within a short period of time.
The propulsion system must have electrical continuity with the vehicle’s earth.
A vehicle must be able to operate at a maximum working pressure of no more than 1.5 atmospheres above atmospheric pressure.
Annexes I and II of the regulation set out the requirements for type–applicable test procedures to be followed by the European Member States.
Member States must ensure that the requirements are met by the Member States and that the competent national authority carries out the necessary checks.
If a Member State considers that a hydrogen component or system does not comply with the regulation, it must inform the European Commission of the reasons for its decision and inform the Commission, which may adopt measures to amend the regulation.
In addition, the Commission is empowered to adopt delegated acts to ensure that:
the regulation does not impede the free movement of hydrogen between Member States;
the Member States do not impose disproportionate burdens on the development and testing of new types of hydrogen; and
the Commission is not obliged to adopt any measures that are contrary to the objectives of this regulation, in order to protect the safety of the public or the environment.
FROM WHEN DOES THE DIRECTIVE APPLY?
It has applied since 1 January 2009.
BACKGROUND
Fuel-powered motor vehicles are becoming increasingly common in the European Union (EU).
For more information, see:
‘Alternative fuels’ (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Motor vehicle: a vehicle designed to operate on the internal market.
* Propulsion system: a system consisting of a fuel cell or a separate propulsion system that supplies electricity to the engine and/or hydrogen to the vehicle.
ACT
Council Directive 2008/42/EC of 9 July 2008 relating to the type‐approval procedure for hydrogen (OJ L 183, 12.8.2008, pp. 1–8)
Successive amendments to Directive 2008 have been incorporated into the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED ACTS
Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2007 laying down Community rules on type–certification of motor vehicles with regard to the use of compressed (GAS) hydrogen and the type of hydrogen component and systems intended for such vehicles and amending Regulations (EC, EC, Euratom) No 496/2006 and (EC), EC, EC and EFTA, and Directives 2006/96/EC, 2006/97/EC and 2006/98/EC (OJC) (Official Journal L 347, 20.12.2007, pp.).
last update 14.11.2017



Summary 149:
Common rules for the internal market in natural gas (common rules on network access and third party access services)
Common rules governing network access
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 596/2009 — common rules for access to the natural gas transmission networks
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It lays down basic principles and rules regarding network access* and third-party access services, congestion management, transparency, balancing and the trading of gas capacity rights.
It aims to promote the completion and functioning of the EU’s internal market for natural gas and cross-border trade.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to all gas transmission, storage and liquefied natural gas system operators (TSS) in the European Union (EU).
It does not apply to the operators of natural gas pipelines or to natural gas storage and LNG systems.
Access to the gas market
Transmission system operators must:
provide the public with all the technical information necessary to gain effective network access;
ensure that network users have access to all the essential services they need;
promote cooperation between the ENTSO for Gas, the European Network of Transmission System Operators for Gas (ETSO for Gas), which is set up by Directive 2009/73/EC (see summary).
The European Commission is responsible for drawing up a Community-wide network development plan for gas. It must include a priority list of priority areas for the development of gas infrastructure.
The Commission must adopt a network code for each of the priority areas. This code must be adopted by 1 July 2014. The Commission must submit it to the European Agency for Safety and Health at the European Commission for its opinion within 6 months of its adoption.
Ensuring transparency
Each TSO for gas must publish at least annually, by a predetermined deadline, all planned maintenance periods that might affect network users’ access to gas and all the operational information that is necessary for them to make an informed decision.
Transparency
Each operator must ensure that:
the information they provide to the public is accurate, comparable and up-to-date;
transparency is based on the best available technical information;
information is provided in a transparent and non-discriminatory manner;
the public is informed of any changes to the network code.
Trading of capacity rights
Each transmission system operator must take reasonable steps to allow capacity rights to be freely tradable and to facilitate such trade in an open, transparent and transparent manner, in line with the principles set out in Regulation (EU) No 1775/2005 on the European network of transmission system operators for gas, and in accordance with Regulation (Euratom) No 652/2014 on the principles of market access and access services.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
    данска гаранка  барганна каканда бъларка, годаланца народна and горалказна (бальна  харна) бодкакса ванта заки блакка (нарсабка) and  гультагнажа (калика).
BACKGROUND
The gas market is one of the most competitive in the world and the regulation aims to ensure that it remains so.
For more information, see:
Natural gas (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Transmission system operator: the person or body responsible for the operation of the gas transmission system.
* Natural gas pipelines: the means by which natural gas is transported from one place to another, including the transmission of gas to, from or to the end of a gas storage or LNG storage facility.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force
Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Council Decision 2009/96/EC
1.7.2009
-
OJ L 127 of 1.7 of 2009
RELATED ACTS
Communication from the Commission to the Council and the European Parliament and the Economic and Social Committee on the application of the Regulation on the Access to the Natural Gas Transmission Networks (COM(2009) 797 final - Not published in the Official Journal).
 
Commission Recommendation of 26 June 2009 on the establishment of a European Network for the Transmission of Natural Gas (ENTSO) for Gas and repealing Directive 2003/55/EC [COM(2010) 796 final - not published in The Official Journal].




Summary 150:
Agreements between EU countries and non-EU countries on matters of civil justice
Agreements with non-European Union (EU) countries
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 593/2009 — mutual legal assistance in civil matters between Member States and third countries
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes a procedure to authorise an EU country to amend an existing agreement or to negotiate and/or conclude an agreement with a third country on matters relating to civil justice.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to agreements concerning particular matters falling, entirely or partly, within the scope of the regulation.
It does not apply to:
contractual obligations;
non-contractual agreements;
agreements relating to the exercise of the rights and obligations of EU citizens;
obligations of EU countries in respect of the protection of intellectual property rights.
Amending an agreement
An EU country may amend an agreement or negotiate an agreement relating to matters falling within its competence if:
the agreement does not contain a clause providing for either:
recognition of the EU’s competence in the field of civil law; or
the EU country is not a party to the agreement;
an EU country does not fulfil its duty of loyal cooperation with the EU country concerned.
The EU country must notify the European Commission of its intention to amend or negotiate the agreement within 30 days of receiving the notification. The Commission must assess the agreement and, if necessary, make a reasoned decision on its application.
Before authorising the opening of formal negotiations, the Commission may propose negotiating guidelines and may request the inclusion of particular clauses in the agreement.
Authorisation to conclude the agreement
If the Commission considers that the agreement is not ready for conclusion, it may decide to open formal negotiations with the country concerned, or to postpone the conclusion of the agreement until it is ready to conclude it.
Where the Commission concludes that the negotiations are not ready, it can authorise the agreement to be concluded without delay.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
   
The Regulation entered into force on 1 July 2009.
BACKGROUND
 
  * KEY TERMS
* Mutual legal assistance*: a legal agreement between two or more EU countries on the basis of which one or more of the parties agrees to cooperate in a specific field.
* Non-binding agreement: an agreement between a party and a non-party to an international or bilateral agreement on the interpretation, interpretation and application of the laws of a third party.
ACT
Council Regulation (EC), Euratom, Euratom of 7 July 2009 on the Mutual Legal Assistance in Civil Matters between the Member States of the European Union and the Republic of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and repealing Council Regulation (Euratom) No 1049/2001
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition into force
Official Journal
Decision 2009/593/EC
7.7.2009
-
OJ L 165 of 7.7 of the same day
RELATED ACTS
 			
Report from the Commission to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions on the application of Council Regulation No 594/2009 of 7 May 2009 on mutual legal aid in civil and commercial matters (COM(2009) 596 final - Not published in the Official Journal)
last update 04.01.2015



Summary 151:
Statistics on migration and asylum: collection and analysis of Community statistics (2007-2013)
Statistics on immigration and asylum (2007 - 2013)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 311/76 on the collection, analysis and dissemination of statistics in the field of migration
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to ensure the production of comprehensive statistics necessary for the development of fair and effective EU policies on migration.
It lays down detailed rules for the application of Council Regulation (EU) No 343/2003 (see summary).
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to EU countries’ national statistics on international migration, usually resident population and acquisition of citizenship, and to non-EU nationals who have in fact left the territory of the EU.
EU countries must provide the European Commission (Eurostat) with the following statistics:
the total number of persons who have entered the EU and those who have left the EU, as a result of an administrative or judicial decision or act;
the number of transfers of persons between EU countries;
total number of asylum seekers who have been taken back or taken charge of an asylum seeker;
information on the number of requests for information made by EU countries to the European Migration Office (EMO);
the numbers of transfers to which the decisions referred to in point 1 and 2 are based;
data on the residence permits and residence of third-country nationals.
The data are to be collected in the form of:
records of administrative and judicial actions;
registers relating to administrative actions; and
statistics of the population of persons or of a particular sub-group of persons;
censuses;
sample surveys;
other appropriate sources.
Eurostatistics must be supplied within 3 months of the end of the reference year and must be provided to Eurostat within 2 months of their end.
In addition, EU countries are required to provide the EMO with:
a list of the categories of persons covered by the regulation;
a description of the types of information to be supplied;
an indication of the sources of the information;
statistical information on the types and methods used to compile the statistics.
Reporting
The EMO must report to the Commission on the quality, comparability and completeness of the statistics it receives, and on any changes in the methods and data sources used. It must also report on the information it receives from the Member States.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
The Regulation has applied since 1 January 2007.
BACKGROUND
   
 
For more information, see:
‘Migration statistics’ on Eurostat’s website.
KEY TERMS
* International migration: the movement of people, goods and services by land, sea or air between countries.
* Non-EU national: a person who is not a national of an EU country but who is legally resident in another EU country and has the right to live and work legally in that country.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EC), Euratom, Euratom and the European Parliament of 11 December 2006 on Community statistics on migration (recast) (OJ L 347, 12.12.2006, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EEC, Euratom and Euratom have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
  (1)
  The European Commission adopts Regulation (ES) No 596/2006 laying down the general principles and procedures for the operation of the European Statistical System (ESS) and amending Council Regulations (EC, EFTA) No 652/2004, (EC and EFTA), (Euratom) No 1096/2004 and (EC).
Regulations (EC)(1) No 1560/2003 of the Council and of the Commission of 2 September 2003 laying down specific rules on the application and transmission of statistics to the ESM and repealing Council Regulation(EC, EC) No 1282/2002 (O J L 347 of 12.11.2003)
See consolidated version.
last update 14.01.2016



Summary 152:
Statutory audits of public-interest entities
Statutory audit of public interest entities
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 596/2011 — statutory audits of statutory auditors and audit firms
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out the conditions for the appointment of statutory audit* and audit firm* bodies* to carry out statutory audits* of EU countries’ statutory audited entities.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to:
statutory auditors or audit firms appointed by EU countries for the purpose of carrying out audits of EU-wide public-public interest entities;
audited entities (e.g. companies, banks, insurance companies, pension funds, etc.).
It does not apply to audit firms.
Appointment
EU countries must ensure that the following conditions are met:
the statutory auditor or audit firm is appointed by the EU country in which the audit is carried out;
the public interest entity is the subject of the statutory audit;
there is no conflict of interest between the statutory auditor and the audit firm.
Audit fees
The statutory auditor is paid by the audited entity for the work it carries out.
The audit committee is responsible for the selection procedure and the selection process.
Duration of the audit engagement
The duration of the engagement is determined according to the nature and scope of the work.
Public-interest entity
Audited entity
The auditor is appointed for a period of 5 years. The duration of this period is determined on the basis of the information provided by the public-national audit committee.
FROM WHEN DOES THE REGULAR REGULATED AGREEMENT APPLACE OF ENTRY INTO FORCELEBRATION APPLACTS
   
The Regulation entered into force on 1 January 2012.
Amending Regulation (EU) 2019/856
 
Amendments to the regulation
Regulations (EU, Euratom and Euratom) 2018/2111 and (EU countries) 2019-856 (see summary) have been incorporated in the basic text.
Regulating Regulation (Euratom) No 652/2014
  is the most recent regulation to be adopted by the European Parliament and of the Council. It aims to improve the quality of audit work carried out by statutory auditing bodies and to ensure the independence of these bodies.
It also aims to ensure that EU countries are able to exercise their supervisory and investigatory powers in any of the following ways:
directly;
in collaboration with other EU countries;
by application to the competent judicial authorities;
through cooperation with the competent authorities of the EU countries.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Council Regulation (EC), Euratom
1.1.2012
-
OJ L 347 of 1.12.2012, pp. 1-8
RELATED ACTS
Regulatory (EC, Euram) No 1296/2014 of the European Commission and the European Economic and Social Committee of 11 December 2014 on the establishment of an audit body for the exercise of the public interest function of statutory audits (EGAOB) (OJ C 202, 12.12-24.2014, pp 1-2)
Regulated (EU/EU) 2017/852 of the Commission and of Euratom of 12 December 2017 on the exercise by the Commission of the powers to adopt delegated acts in the field of audit, and repealing Council Regulation 2006/43/EC and Council Directive 84/253/EEC and Commission Decision 2005/909/EC (Official Journal L 157, 9.12.-19.2017, pp 3-8)
last update 04.01.2019



Summary 153:
Common Fisheries Policy (CFP)
Common Fisheries Programme
SUMMARY OF:
Decision (EU) 2015/852 — common fisheries policy
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE DECISION?
   
 
It sets out the common framework for the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources under the Common Fisheries Policy.
KEY POINTS
The CFP is the EU’s fisheries policy. It aims to ensure the conservation of marine biological resources and the sustainable management of fisheries targeting them.
It is based on the principle of relative stability, which means that the sustainable use of the resources of the fisheries covered by the CFP does not change over time.
The aim is to maintain or improve the conservation, sustainable management and management of the marine ecosystems covered by this common framework.
To achieve this, the EU has adopted a number of measures, including:
a multiannual national strategic plan for the period 2014-2020;
fisheries partnership agreements between EU countries;
the establishment of an Advisory Council for Aquaculture and for the Advisory Council on Markets;
agreements with non-EU countries and non-governmental organisations (NGOs);
the creation of a European Fisheries Information System (EFIS).
The European Commission is responsible for the implementation of these measures.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS DECISION APPLY?
The decision has applied since 29 March 2015.
BACKGROUND
The common fisheries programme is the main instrument of the EU fisheries policy, which aims to protect and conserve the marine environment and the marine biodiversity.
For more information, see:
Fisheries (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Common fisheries policy:
common fisheries policy (CPP): the policy of the European Union (EU).
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Decision 2011/884/EU of 25 and 26 March 2011 on the adoption, on behalf of the Member States, of the common Fisheries Policy and of the Sustainable Fisheries Partnership Agreement (CFPA) (OJ L 183, 29.4.2011, pp. 1-2)
RELATED DOCUMENTS
  (1)
  The European Commission adopts the common fisheries partnership agreement (FISA) with the European Economic and Social Committee (EASC) and the European Maritime and Fisheries Committee (EMAC) (EC) on the sustainable fisheries partnership agreements (SFPAs).
Agreement between the European Commission and the EASC:
Sustainable fisheries partnership (SFFAs): the agreement between the Commission, the European Environment Agency (EEA), the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA), the EEA and the World Trade Organization (WTO) on sustainable fisheries management.
Agreements between the EU and the EU countries:
conservation of marine ecosystems;
management of fisheries;
protection of marine biodiversity;
promotion of sustainable fishing opportunities;
effective control, inspection and enforcement of IUU fishing activities.
Safeguards
The EU and its Member States must:
ensure that:
fishing opportunities are allocated according to objective, transparent and objective criteria;
allocating the fishing opportunities available to each Member State are based on fair and transparent criteria, including those of an environmental, social and economic nature;
protecting marine life;
avoidance and minimising unwanted catches;
implementing measures to prevent, reduce and eliminate illegal fishing;
ensuring the protection of marine protected areas;
cooperating with the International Maritime Organization (IMO) and other non-member countries in the field of fishery conservation;
monitoring and reporting on the use of fishing opportunities.
In addition, Member States are required to:
take the necessary measures to ensure compliance with the rules of CFP;
identify and prevent the illegal fishing of certain species;
take appropriate measures to reduce the number of illegal fish caught;
prevent and minimise the impact of illegal fishing on marine ecosystems.
Member States are also required to take the necessary steps to ensure that the catch of unwanted fish is minimised and to prevent the introduction of new species into the fishery.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
The agreement entered into force on 1 January 2016 and will expire on 31 December 2020.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force
Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member State
Official Journal
Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 852/2011
1.1.2016
-
OJ C 202, 1.7.2011
Amending act(s)
Entry in force:
Dateof expiry (if different from the date of entry into force of the agreement):
1 January 2016
1 March 2016
- The date on which the agreement enters into force is extended for a period of 5 years from 29 December 2013.
Amendments to Regulation (EU), Euratom, EC and EFSA
Dec



Summary 154:
Fishery and aquaculture products — common organisation of markets in the European Union (CMO)
Fisheries and aquaulture products: common organisation and common market organisation
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 1380/2013 on the common organisation, organisation and supervision of the markets in fishery and aquatic products
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to ensure that fishery products marketed in the EU are marketed in a way that is fair and transparent to consumers.
KEY POINTS
The regulation sets out common rules for the organisation and management of the EU’s markets in fisheries and aquatic products (FMO).
It also sets out the conditions for the recognition of producers’ organisations (i.e. organisations representing fishery producers) and inter-branch organisations.
It establishes a common market information system (CIS) for the marketing of FMO products.
The CIS is based on a set of principles:
fishery products should be marketed according to the best available scientific and technical knowledge;
the products should not be marketed as if they are products of non-European origin;
good manufacturing practice (GMP) should be used in the production and marketing of the products;
marketing standards should be set out in a language easily understood by consumers;
consumer information should be available to the public;
information should be made available to consumers about the products they buy;
competition rules should be in line with EU competition rules.
FROM WHEN DOES IT APPLY?
From 13 December 2014.
   
It has applied since 1 January 2015.
BACKGROUND
The European Commission is responsible for the implementation of the regulation.
For more information, see:
‘The Common Market Information System’ on the European Commission's website.
* KEY TERMS
* FMO: the market organisation of products (e.g. the market for fishery, aqua-based products).
* Producer organisation: an organisation or body representing a fishery producer or aquacultural producer.
ACT
Council Regulation (EC) No 1308/2013 of 13 December 2013 laying down the general principles and implementing powers relating to the Common Organisation of the Markets in Fishery and Aquaculture Products (COSM) (OJ L 347, 14.12.2013, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EEC) 2015/849 have been incorporated in the basic text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 14.01.2016



Summary 155:
Securities settlement systems (SSS) — rules for credit institutions and credit institutions (Regulation (EU) No 1095/2014)
Securities settlements systems (RSS)
SUMMARY OF:
Implementing Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 1024/2014 on securities settlement systems
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to improve the functioning of the securities settlement* systems (CSDs)* in the European Union (EU).
It sets out rules for the operation of securities settlement (SSDs)* systems.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to all credit institutions, including banks, insurance companies, investment firms, investment banks and other financial institutions.
It does not apply to credit institutions that are not covered by Directive 98/26/EC on the prudential supervision of financial institutions (see summary).
Requirements for CSDs
SSDs must comply with the following requirements:
be based in an EU Member State and must have a minimum number of employees;
be established in a Member State with a minimum age of at least 18 years;
not be based in a non-EU Member State;
operate in a country other than the one in which they have their registered office;
have at least one registered office in the country where they are based;
provide a minimum level of risk management and risk management services to the authorities of the host Member State.
In addition, a CSD must:
ensure that the competent national authorities and the competent authorities in the Member State in which it is based have the necessary to identify and monitor the CSDs’ compliance with the regulation;
take all necessary steps to ensure that the CSD complies with the requirements laid down in the regulation, in particular with regard to:
compliance with the relevant national legislation;
identify, monitor and investigate the risks that CSDs may face;
establish procedures that facilitate the settlement of transactions in financial instruments;
cooperate with the European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) and the European Central Bank (ECB) in order to ensure the safe operation of their SSDs;
comply with the rules laid down by the European Banking Authority (EBA).
The CSD’s obligations
A CSD is responsible for:
implementing the rules and procedures set out in the Regulation;
ensuring the timely recovery of operations and the fulfilment of the obligations in the event of events that pose a significant risk of disrupting operations.
The competent authorities must ensure that:
the CSD has the necessary resources to meet its obligations;
the relevant national authorities have access to the information and expertise necessary to assess and assess CSDs; and
the competent authority is subject to on-site inspections.
Regulatory technical standards
The European Commission, in close cooperation with the members of the ESCB, is to develop draft regulatory technical standards to specify the reconciliation measures that the SSDs are to take under paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of the regulation. The Commission will submit those draft standards to the European Parliament and the Council by 18 June 2015.
Amendments
The Regulation has been amended several times. The most recent amendments to the regulation have been incorporated into the basic text. These amendments are as follows:
Amending Regulation (Euratom) 2019/852 introduces a new definition of ‘securities settlement system’ in relation to ‘financial instruments’, and amends Regulation (EC) No 648/2012 on the requirements for the establishment and operation of the SSD. This definition replaces the previous definition of securitisation system, which was replaced by ‘banking-type ancillary services’ as of 1 January 2020. The new definition applies from 1 January 2021.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULATING ACT APPLY?
Regulation(EU) 2014/1024/EU has applied since 16 December 2014 and had to become law in the EU Member States by 16 December 2016.
BACKGROUND
The securities settlement system is one of the most important components of the financial system and is essential for the smooth functioning of financial markets.
For more information, see:
Settlement systems (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* CSD: a credit institution or investment firm.
* Credit institution: an investment firm or other financial institution that provides securities settlement services.
ACT
Commission Implementing Regulation of 15 November 2014 laying down detailed rules for securities settlement and related business rules (OJ L 287, 29.11.2014, pp. 1-2)
RELATED ACTS
Regulating (EU), Euratom Regulation (CFSP) No 852/2014 of 18 June 2014 on the establishment of a common framework for the conduct of business rules of credit institutions in respect of the establishment, operation and supervision of the Securities Settlement System (SSS) and amending Regulations (EC, EFSP, EFSA,



Summary 156:
Cohesion Fund — funding for transport infrastructure and environment projects in the area of transport infrastructure (Cohesion Regulation)
The Cohesion Fund is the European Union’s (EU) investment fund for the fields of environment and trans-European transport infrastructure.
ACT
Council Regulation (EC) No 1084/2006 of 11 July 2006 establishing a Cohesion fund and repealing Regulation (Euratom) No 1164/94 (OJ L 210, 31.7.2006)
SUMMARY
WHAT DOES THIS REGULATION DO?
The regulation establishes the tasks of the European Commission and the scope of its support for the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF).
The ERDF is the main instrument of the EU's investment for growth and jobs goal. It provides financial support to the European Communities (now the EU countries) in the areas of transport, energy, transport and sustainable urban development.
KEY POINTS
Objectives
The objectives of the ERDF are to:
promote the sustainable development of the environment and transport infrastructure in the EU;
contribute to the creation of an integrated and sustainable transport network in Europe;
support the development of a high-quality, safe and environmentally sound transport system in Europe.
In order to achieve these objectives, the EU is committed to investing at least €2.5 billion in the following areas:
environmental and sustainable development;
trans-European infrastructure;
energy;
sustainable urban development; and
transport.
The cohesion fund supports projects in these fields in order to contribute to achieving the objectives set out in the investment objectives.
Cohesion fund:
provides financial support for projects of common interest, i.e. projects that contribute to the achievement of the common objectives, such as:
the creation of a sustainable urban environment;
the improvement of the quality of life and health of the urban population;
improvement of the competitiveness of the labour market;
improving the environmental performance of the transport sector;
encouraging the use of renewable energy;
enhancing the sustainable use of energy resources;
promoting the sustainable urbanisation of the area;
fostering sustainable urban renewal;
providing for the sustainable management of land, water, energy and transport resources.
Scope of support
The EDF is responsible for providing financial support, in particular for:
investment priorities;
programme-specific results indicators and, where relevant, programme-specific output indicators;
cohesion fund investment priorities.
Specific provisions concerning the type of activities which can be supported by the EDF are laid down in Annex I to this regulation.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
Regulation (EC, Euratom) 2018/856 has applied since 1 January 2019.
BACKGROUND
   
The European Commission is the implementing body for the Cohesion Regulation.
For more information, see:
‘Cohesion Funds’ on the Commission's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Environmental impact assessment: an assessment of the impact of a project on the environment, on human health, on the economy and on the social and economic well-being of its beneficiaries, and on other aspects of the social, economic and cultural life of the beneficiaries.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Decision No 661/2010/EU
1.1.2019
-
OJ C 348 of 20.12.2010
Amending act(s)
Entry INTO FORCE
Transmission of the act
Entry in force
Transposition of the Act
Expiry date
Official journal
Regulations (EC), Euratom and Euratom
01.01.2023
2.2.2022
1 January 2021
- The date of entry into force of the new Cohesion Framework Decision (CFSP) 2019-2023.
Last updated: 27.08.2018



Summary 157:
The European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) and the European Cohesion Fund (Cohesion Fund) (2014-2020)
The European regional development fund (Euratom)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013/EC — the structure and operation of the European Regional development Fund
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes the structure, rules and procedures for the EU’s financial instrument for the development of regions and the co-financing of projects in the European Union (EU).
KEY POINTS
The ERDF is the main instrument of the EU's common investment policy (CEP).
It aims to contribute to reducing disparities between the levels of development of the various regions and to reducing the backwardness of the least favoured regions, among which particular attention is paid to regions which suffer from severe and permanent natural or demographic handicaps such as the northernmost regions with very low population density and island, cross-border and mountain regions.
It is funded by the European Investment Bank (EIB), the European Social Fund (ESF) and by the Cohesion fund (CSF).
The main objective of the ERDF and the ESI is to:
reduce disparities between regions;
contribute to the sustainable development of all the EU countries;
improve the quality of life of the most disadvantaged regions; and
promote the sustainable urbanisation of all EU countries.
The ESI and CSF contribute to the creation of jobs, growth and employment opportunities in the EU.
the ERDF contributes to the achievement of sustainable urban development and to the growth and diversification of the labour market.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULTRY TO APPLY?
   
It entered into force on 1 January 2014.
BACKGROUND
The regulation is based on Article 174 TFEU (the Treaty on European Union's Economic and Social Rights and Freedoms).
For more information, see:
‘The structure and the operation’ on the European Commission's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Regional development fund: the European Development Fund, the European Cooperation Fund, or the European Fund for Rural Development (EURDP).
* Cohesion funds: the Fund for Regional Development is a joint EU-European Union investment instrument. It provides financial support to EU countries in the form of grants, loans, grants-in-kind and grants-as-a-service. It is not a grant-for-grants instrument.
ACT
 
Council Decision 2014/1303/EC of 25 November 2014 establishing the structure of the Regional Development Facility and the Regulation relating to its operation (OJ L 347, 1.12.2014, pp. 1-2)
Successive amendments to Regulation 2014/135/EC have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED ACTS
  (1) The European Commission adopts Regulation (EC) No 1080/2006 establishing the framework for the European Research and Innovation Fund and amending Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 1300/2013 on the establishment of a European Research & Innovation Fund.
last update 14.01.2020



Summary 158:
European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) for the 2014-2020 programming period
European regional development fund (ERGDF)
SUMMARY OF:
Implementing Regulation (EU) 2019/849 — the 2014–2020 programme for cooperation between the Member States
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out the general rules for the implementation of the ERDF’s cooperation programme (2014–2020) with the participation of the European Investment Bank (EIB), the European Social Fund (ESF) and the Cohesion Fund (Cohesion Fund).
KEY POINTS
The ERDF is the main instrument of the EU's common regional development policy (ERDP), which aims to support regional cooperation in the European Union (EU).
It is funded by the EU countries and the EIB.
The 2014–20 programming period runs from 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2020.
It covers the period from 2014 to 2021.
Programme objectives
The programme aims to:
reduce disparities between the levels of development of the various regions and to reduce the backwardness of the least favoured regions, among which particular attention is paid to rural areas, areas affected by industrial transition, and regions which suffer from severe and permanent natural or demographic handicaps such as the northernmost regions with very low population density and island, cross-border and mountain regions;
improve the quality of life of the most disadvantaged regions, particularly in terms of health, education and social protection;
contribute to the creation of jobs and sustainable development;
promote the sustainable development of rural areas;
increase the participation in the most deprived regions in the EU.
Cooperation programme
The cooperation programme is divided into 3 main categories:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
The regulation entered into force on 1 January 2019.
BACKGROUND
The EIB is one of the main sources of funding for the ERDP. The other sources are the ESF, the ESI, the COhesion Fund and the EU Member States.
For more information, see:
ERDF (European Commission).
MAIN DOCUMENT
Regulation (EC) No 1301/2013/2013 — the implementation programme for the cooperation programme between the member States (2014-2020) (OJ L 347, 29.12.2013, pp. 1–8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1303/2013 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
Regulating (EU, Eurat) No 1296/2014 — the European Regional Development Instrument (ERDI) (EC), the Coherence Fund (EC and ESF) (EU-2018) (see summary) (See consolidated version) (European External Action Service (Euratom) (Official Journal C 202, 7.6.2014) (Corrigendum) (last update 11.01.2016) (PDF)
last update 12.02.2016



Summary 159:
Trans-European energy networks (TEN-E) — guidelines for trans-EU energy infrastructures (2014-2020)
Trans-Europa energy networks: guidelines on how to build trans-European infrastructure (2014 - 2020)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 596/2014 on guidelines for the construction of trans-Europaea energy networks
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It lays down guidelines for how to establish a European Union (EU) list of energy infrastructure projects of common interest.
It aims to improve the transparency and comparability of the EU’s energy infrastructure and to ensure that projects are prioritised.
KEY POINTS
The regulation sets out guidelines on the construction and evaluation of projects of ‘common interest’ (see Annex I to the regulation).
The list is updated every 2 years.
Projects are divided into 3 categories:
energy infrastructure: projects which have a significant impact on the energy system, such as energy transmission and distribution networks, energy storage and distribution grids, and energy distribution networks;
trans-border energy network: projects that have a major impact on energy security and security of supply and demand (e.g. cross-border electricity transmission, distribution and interconnecting energy networks);
cross-border carbon dioxide network: development of carbon dioxide transport infrastructure between EU countries and with neighbouring countries in view of the deployment of carbon capture and storage (CCSPs);
energy grid infrastructure: infrastructure;
energy system wide cost-benefit analysis: assessing the benefits of a project compared to a lower-risk alternative.
The European Commission is responsible for the selection of projects on the EU list.
EU list
Each year, the Commission draws up a list of projects which are of interest to the Commission and the Member States. The list is published in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Commission publishes the list in Annexes I and II of the regulation.
Member States are responsible for selecting projects from the list and for ensuring that they are approved by the Commission, the European Parliament, the Council and the European Economic and Social Committee (EASC). The Commission is also responsible for monitoring the implementation of the projects and ensuring that the public benefits are taken into account in the decision-making process.
Each project is assessed by the EASC on the basis of the following criteria:
cost-benefit;
benefit of the project compared with a lower risk alternative;
environmental impact;
impact on the environment;
social and economic impact.
If the Commission considers that a project does not meet all of these criteria, it may refuse to grant a permit or authorise a project, unless it is in the overriding public interest of the Member State concerned. If the project is not in the public interest, the project must be approved within the time limit set out in Article 10(1) of this regulation. If a project is considered to be a public interest project, the decision must be taken within the period set by Article 11(2) of the Regulation.
In addition, Member States must ensure that:
the project is implemented in line with the principles of subsidiarity;
public consultation is carried out;
the public consultation process is open to all interested parties;
a public participation process is in place;
information is made available to the public on the European Commission's website and on the project's website;
all information is kept confidential, except for any commercially sensitive information;
EU funds are allocated and disbursed by the Union for each project on the Union list;
The Commission reserves the right to make proposals in this direction based on the experience gained from the monitoring of implementation of projects.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
The Regulation has applied since 1 January 2015.
BACKGROUND
   
 
Energy infrastructure is one of the priorities of the Europe 2020 strategy, which aims to create a more resource-efficient, more sustainable and more competitive economy.
For more information, see:
Transition to a more energy-efficient Europe (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Energy infrastructure: an infrastructure project is defined as a project which has a significant environmental impact and which has the potential to reduce or eliminate energy consumption.
* Transmission and distribution network: a network which provides electricity, gas or other energy-related services in the form of a transmission or distribution system.
ACT
 			
  The Regulation of the General Assembly and of the Council of 11 December 2014 on guidelines on guidelines relating to the building of trans‑European energy infostructures and repealing Decision No 1364/2006/EC (OJ L 347, 12.12.2014, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 529/2014 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last



Summary 160:
Dispute resolution and dispute resolution (ODR) in the EU
Disputes resolution and settlement of disputes in the European Union (EDU)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 596/2013 on the operation of the Online Dispute Resolution and Resolution (ODR) platform
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to improve the resolution of disputes between traders and consumers over the sale of goods and services.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to disputes between consumers and third-party entities (ADR entities).
It does not apply to:
trade in goods or services between ADR entities;
the sale or supply of services by an ADR entity to a third party; or
the supply or sale by a trader to a consumer.
The ODR platform is an online dispute resolution and resolution system.
It is designed to improve consumer protection by:
ensuring that disputes can be settled quickly and efficiently;
providing the parties with the information they need to resolve a dispute;
facilitating the exchange of information between the parties;
promoting the use of an electronic dispute resolution system (EDR) to resolve disputes;
improving the transparency of the EU’s internal market;
reducing the time and cost of resolving disputes.
FROM WHEN DOES IT APPLY?
Directive 2013/11/EU has applied since 1 January 2014 and had to become law in the Member States by 1 January 2016.
BACKGROUND
The EU has been working towards a single market for online transactions.
For more information, see:
‘Online dispute resolution’ on the European Commission's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Dispute resolution: the procedure by which is used to settle a dispute between a trader and a consumer over a product or service.
ACT
Council Regulation (EC) No 550/2013 of 20 December 2013 on the Organisation of Disputes Resolution and Decision-making in the Internal Market and repealing Council Regulation (EEC, Euratom) No 652/2004/EC.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition into force
Official Journal
Decision 2013/12/EU
1.1.2014
-
OJ L 183 of 1.1 January 2014
RELATED ACTS
Council Directive 2013/13/EU of 12 December 2013 establishing a European Union Single Market for Online Transactions (SME) and repealing Decision 2004/387/EC (Official Journal L 181 of 12.12.2013).
Last updated: 28.08.2014



Summary 161:
Direct payments to farmers in the EU under the common agricultural policy (CAP) — rules for the allocation of direct payments to small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) and young farmers
Direct payments in the European Union (EU)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EEC) No 596/2014 — rules on the allocation and management of direct payment entitlements to small farmers
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out the rules on how EU countries allocate direct payments (i.e. payments to individual farmers) under the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP).
KEY POINTS
The regulation sets out rules on:
the eligibility of eligible areas for direct payments;
the maximum amount of payments per hectare for each eligible hectare of land in each EU country;
minimum requirements for receiving direct payments.
It does not apply to certain categories of land, such as:
agriculture, forestry, fisheries, aquaculture, horticulture, forestry and fisheries;
fisheries;
seeds, fruit and vegetables;
sugar beet, cane and chicory;
fruit and vegetables and short rotation coppice.
The following categories of eligible area are excluded from the scope of the regulation:
land of less than 10,000 hectares;
horticultural land;
land with fewer than 100,000 square metres of land.
Eligible area
The number of eligible hectares is determined by using a share of the national ceiling set out in the annex to the regulation.
the number of hectares declared in each country’s national plan for the calendar year 2019 and the number declared in the region concerned for calendar year 2020.
Where an eligible area does not exceed the national cap, the EU country may decide to set a lower ceiling.
Direct payment for young farmers:
a lump sum amount per farmer calculated by multiplying a fixed number of hectare by a figure corresponding to 25 % of the average payment per hectale, as established by the EU countries;
an annual lump sum of up to €5,000 for each hectare, calculated by dividing the amount of eligible land by the number of young farmers;
a minimum amount of €10,000 per farmer, calculated as a percentage of the annual average payment.
EU countries may also decide to grant complementary national direct payments in Bulgaria and Romania.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 January 2014.
BACKGROUND
The common agriculture policy is the cornerstone of the EU's sustainable development goal (SDP), which aims to reduce poverty and improve the quality of life of farmers and the environment.
For more information, see:
‘Direct payments’ on the European Commission's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Direct payment: a payment to a farmer for the use of his or her land. It is calculated as the sum of the difference between the total value of the payment and the total amount of land covered by that farmer.
MAIN DOCUMENT
  българска барка  грана ганка, года кандарна (OJ L 321, 1.12.2014, pp. 1-2)
Successive amendments to Regulation (Eec) No 550/2014 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 14.01.2016(1) The United Kingdom withdraws from the EU and becomes a third country (non-EU country) as of 1 February 2020.



Summary 162:
Support for the sustainable development of the Aegean region
Supporting the sustainable diversification of the Mediterranean region
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 596/2009 — support programme for sustainable development in the eastern Mediterranean region (Aegean Regional Development Fund)
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out detailed rules for the implementation of the EU’s financial assistance programme for the islands of the Eastern Mediterranean region.
It aims to support sustainable development and the sustainable management of the economic and social development of these islands.
KEY POINTS
The programme is implemented by means of a support programme, which constitutes an essential tool for supplying those islands with agricultural products and for supporting local agricultural production.
The aim of the programme is to:
increase the level of agricultural production in the islands;
improve the quality of life of the local population;
promote sustainable economic development;
facilitate trade between the smaller islands; and
reduce trade costs in respect of processed products.
Support measures
Under the programme, the European Commission is responsible for:
implementing the programme;
monitoring its implementation;
assessing the beneficiaries’ compliance;
providing technical assistance to the beneficiaries;
ensuring the proper functioning of the system of national authorities;
examining the application of the measures;
carrying out checks to ensure that beneficiaries comply with the programme.
Implementing acts
The European Commission may adopt acts in accordance with the relevant to the programme in order to ensure its proper implementation.
to ensure that:
the beneficiaries are properly reimbursed for the amounts they have received;
the programme is compatible with the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
The Commission may also adopt acts to supplement or modify the programme if it considers that the programme does not fulfil its objectives.
Approval and amendments
The regulation has been amended several times, most recently by Regulation (EU) 2019/1369.
FROM WHEN DOES THE REGUMENT APPLYEAR OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
   
It entered into force on 1 July 2009.
BACKGROUND
 
The support programme is one of the main elements of the stabilisation and growth strategy (SGP) for the eastern and southern Mediterranean region, which is being implemented by the European Investment Bank (EIB).
For more information, see:
‘The Eastern Mediterranean Region’ on the EIB's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Agricultural production: the production, processing and marketing of agricultural products in the area of land, water, air, sea and land transport.
MAIN DOCUMENT
  Егранска габанка (EaR) (Codified version)
Council Regulation (EC), Euratom, Euratom of 30 June 2009 establishing a programme to provide sustainable development assistance for the western and eastern Mediterranean Region (OJ L 157, 1.7.2009, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (Euratom) No 1/2009 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
  (1)
Regulations (EC, Eurat) No 1212/2013 and (EU), Eurat (EC).
See consolidated version.
last update 04.01.2021



Summary 163:
Road transport statistics: carriage of goods by road (Regulation (EC) No 596/2011 — carriage of traffic by road statistics (recast)
Road transport Statistics: carriage by road
SUMMARY OF:
Delegated Regulation (EU) 2015/849 — carriage by traffic statistics
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
   
 
It lays down rules on the transmission of statistics to the European Commission (Eurostat) on the carriage of road transport by road.
KEY POINTS
The regulation requires EU countries to compile statistical data relating to the following areas:
vehicle;
journey*;
goods.
EU countries must transmit data to Eurostat on the following:
the number of tonnes of goods transported by road;
the total tonne-kilometre of goods carried by road transport vehicles;
total number of persons travelling by road in the EU.
The data must be collected in the form of:
a list of vehicles and their registration number;
a description of the type of goods (single or main);
the type of transport (lorry or road tractor, semi-trailer, heavy goods vehicle, light goods vehicle and heavy goods vehicles);
a summary of the number and type of persons involved in the transport of goods during the journey;
an indication of the name, address or registration number of the person driving the vehicle;
details of the vehicle and of the persons accompanying the vehicle.
Annexes to the regulation specify the types of data to be collected and the methods to be used.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULATED REGULATE APPLY?
It has applied since 1 January 2015.
It repeals Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 696/2002.
BACKGROUND
 The regulation is one of a series of measures designed to modernise the EU’s statistical system.
For more information, see:
‘Carriage by road’ on Eurostat's website.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Commission Delegated Regulations (EC
1.1.2015
-
2.2.2016
3.3.2017
OJ L 347 of 12.12.2015, pp. 1-8
RELATED ACTS
Regulation No 697/2002/EC of the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions of 11 December 2002 establishing a framework for the exchange of information on road transport statistics between Member States and amending Council Regulation (EEC), Euratom and Council Decision 2006/856/EC (see summary) and Council Regulations (Euratom and Euratom).
last update 04.01.2016



Summary 164:
European Judicial Network in civil and commercial matters — service of documents by EU countries’ judicial officers, officials and other competent persons (EJNIC)
Eastern European Judicial Network (EjNIC): Service of documents through the EU country concerned
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 1348/2000 on the establishment of an EJNic
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to establish a single European judicial network for the provision of services of documents between EU countries.
KEY POINTS
The regulation sets up a single system for the transmission and receipt of documents in the European Union (EU).
It provides for:
the establishment of a single central point of contact for all EU countries in the field of judicial cooperation in civil matters (e.g. the EjNic);
the setting up of an EU-wide network of agencies responsible for providing the service of the documents referred to in the regulation;
the creation of a central register of all the EU-level agencies providing the services referred to above.
It also establishes a system of cooperation between the national judicial authorities of the EU countries which are responsible for the delivery of documents.
The European Judicial network in Civil and Commercial Matters is a network of national judicial offices, judicial officials, officials or other competent people of EU countries, which provides the information on the services provided by the agencies designated by the regulation.
Eligibility for direct service
Direct service is possible for any person interested in a judicial proceeding to effect service of a document directly through the judicial officers or officials of the country addressed, where such service is permitted under the law of that EU country.
Requests for service must be made by the addressee and the requesting agency. The requesting direct service must include:
a request for a translation or translation of the document;
a description of the nature and content of the requested document; and
a list of the persons and bodies authorised to provide the service.
A request for service may also be made via the national central register. The transmitting agency must ensure that the information requested is provided in a language easily understood by the requesting person.
If the requesting party is unable to understand the requesting service, it must provide the transmitting agency with a copy of the request and the documents of which a translation is requested.
Where the receiving agency refuses to accept a document, it may refuse to provide service or refuse to translate the request. If the applicant does not comply with the request, the applicant may ask the judge to order that the applicant be informed of the reasons for the refusal. The applicant may also ask the applicant to take any provisional or protective measures in the event of refusal.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
The Regulation has applied since 1 July 2000 and had to become law in the EU Member States by 1 July 2001.
BACKGROUND
The EJCN was set up in 1999 and is based on the Convention on the Functioning of the European System of Central Banks (COSCB).
For more information, see:
‘Direct service’ on the European Commission’s website.
* KEY TERMS
* Direct service: the service provided by a judicial officer, official or other person to a person in another EU country for the purpose of obtaining a document.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Decision 2000/1348/EC
1.7.2000
-
OJ L 165 of 1.7, 2000
Amending act(s)
Entry INTO FORCE
Deadlines for transposing in the member states
Official journal
Regulations (EC, Euratom) No 596/2006 and (EC), No 599/2006
1 and (EU) No 696/2008
1 of the following are repealed and replaced by Regulations (EC and Euratom).
last update 04.01.2016



Summary 165:
Regulation (EC) No 596/2006 on the regulation of advanced therapy medicinal products for human use and investigational medicinal products (i.e. products intended for the treatment of diseases and dysfunctions)
Recognition of the benefits of biomedicine in the field of biotechnology and the use of human tissues and cells for the diagnosis, treatment and prevention of diseases
Recombination of the European Medicines Agency
Recompilation of the Medicinal Products for Human Use Regulation
SUMMARY
WHAT DOES THIS REGULATION DO?
It sets out the rules for the registration, labelling and authorisation of new advanced therapy medicines* intended for use in the European Union (EU).
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to:
tissue-based products* and somatic cell therapy* medicinal products;
combined advanced therapy products*;
immuno-therapeutic products* for the prevention, diagnosis and treatment of disease;
intravenous products* intended to be administered by a medical device or active implantable medical device.
It does not apply to products which are intended for infants, children or adults.
Tissues and cells
The products covered by the regulation are:
products which are derived from human tissues or cells;
products derived from the cells of an animal or plant;
tissues or cells derived from cells of a non-human animal;
somatic cell therapies;
medicinal products; and
surgical products.
Labelling
The labelling of these products must include the following information:
the name of the product and its intended use;
the indication of the age of the patient, if appropriate, the gender of the user;
a description of the medicinal product;
an indication of whether the product is intended for children, infants or adults;
instructions on how to use the product, including information on the safety and efficacy of the treatment;
information on the risks associated with the product.
The information must be clearly visible and clearly distinguishable from other information, such as the product’s name, the intended use and the intended age.
EU countries must ensure that these information is made available to the general public and to the European Commission, which is responsible for the implementation of the regulation.
Where an advanced therapy product is used in a hospital, institution or private practice, the hospital must establish and maintain a system for patient and product traceability.
In addition, the EU country concerned must:
ensure that the information provided by the manufacturer, importer or authorised representative is clearly identifiable;
establish and maintain an independent system for the monitoring and evaluation of the quality and safety of the products used;
assess the risks involved in the manufacture, testing, processing, preservation, storage and distribution of products and ensure that the products comply with the requirements laid down in Directive 2004/23/EC in respect of tissue and cell transplantation, and in Directive 2002/98/EC on the quality, safety and traceability of human blood and blood components.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 January 2007 and had to become law in the EU countries by 1 January 2008.
BACKGROUND
 
* KEY TERMS
* Advanced therapy medicinal product: a product which may fall within the definition of a tissue-based product and may be combined with other products. It may be used to treat a disease, disorder or disease.
* Medication: a substance that is administered by means of a central or sub-specialised medical device and is intended to prevent, diagnose, treat or alleviate the symptoms of a disease or disease or to prevent or treat the effects of disease or a disease in the body. It does not replace, cure or alleviate symptoms of the disease or disorder, but is intended only to reduce the risk of its occurrence or to reduce its duration of use.
ACT
Regulation 2006/96/EC of the Council and of the Representatives of the Governments of the Member States, meeting within the Council of 11 December 2006 on the Regulation on the Registration, Labelling and Authorisation of Advanced Therapy Medicines for human Use and Investigational Medicines (i) (OJ L 168, 15.12.2006, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EC), as amended by Regulation (EU) No 696/2007, have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED ACTS
  (1) The European Commission adopts Regulation (EEC, Euratom) No 1296/2004 of 8 October 2003 laying down the principles and guidelines of good manufacturing practice in regard of medicinal products, investigational medicines for human uses and medicinal products intended to human use, and adapted, where necessary, to reflect the specific nature of those products. See consolidated version.
  The regulation repe



Summary 166:
Emissions from motor vehicles — type approval and type-approval procedures for motor vehicles and their trailers (until 2 January 2020)
Expiry of the type approval of motor vehicles: type approval, type-certificates of conformity and type certification
Exemptions from type approval
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 596/2008 — type-approved motor vehicles
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out the rules for type approval (EC type approval) and type certificates (NACs) for the sale, registration and operation of vehicles in the European Union (EU).
KEY POINTS
Type approval
The regulation applies to motor vehicles with a mass not exceeding 2.5 tonnes and a gross tonnage not exceeding 10,000 kg.
Types of vehicles covered by the regulation are:
motor vehicles designed and built for the transport of goods by road;
vehicles intended and built to carry passengers;
cars and light commercial vehicles intended for passenger transport;
categories of vehicles intended to be driven by passengers, such as ambulances, fire engines, ambulances and ambulances;
trams and coaches;
light commercial vehicles.
Manufacturers’ type approval obligations
The manufacturer of a motor vehicle must apply for EC type approval or national type approval to the competent authority in the EU country in which the vehicle is registered.
The competent authority decides whether the vehicle meets the requirements of the regulation.
If the vehicle manufacturer does not meet the requirements, the manufacturer is required to submit a certificate of conformity assessment (CCA).
The certificate is issued by the competent national authority and is valid for 10 years after the vehicle has been approved.
Certificates
The CE type certificates are issued by national authorities and are valid for a maximum period of 10 years from the date of application for CE type approval.
National authorities must ensure that the CE type certificate is valid throughout the EU and that the vehicle complies with the requirements laid down in the regulation and that it is accompanied by the CE conformity assessment certificate.
Type-certificate of conformity
If a vehicle does not comply with the regulation’s requirements, it is subject to CE type certification and may be subject to a number of penalties, including:
a ban on the sale of the vehicle;
a prohibition on the placing on the market or putting into service of a vehicle which is likely to cause serious injury or damage to the health or safety of persons or property;
restrictions on access to vehicle repair and maintenance information and to the information relating to vehicle maintenance.
EU countries must also ensure that:
vehicle owners and operators have the right to:
access to vehicle information;
information relating to the type of vehicle and to its maintenance and repair; and
information concerning the type and number of types of vehicles registered in their country.
FROM WHEN DOES THE REGUMENT APPLY?
 
   
It has applied since 2 January 2008. EU countries had to incorporate it into national law by 2 January 2013.
BACKGROUND
  * KEY TERMS
* Motor vehicle: a vehicle with at least 2 different energy converters and two different energy storage systems (e.g. a hybrid vehicle).
* Light commercial vehicle: any vehicle intended for transport by road or by rail, whether or not it is propelled by a motor engine or by a combination of internal combustion engines.
* Heavy commercial vehicles: vehicles designed to transport goods and having a gross mass of more than 2,500 kg and which are propelled by at least one engine and have a gross weight of at least 1,700 kg and are not propelled by more than one engine.
ACT
  барсканка грандан гарка, гъланна брака  годанъка and глаксана  харганика (OJ L 183, 28.7.2008, pp. 1-2)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EC, EC) No 550/2008 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
last update 14.01.2020



Summary 167:
Risk assessment of substances in foodstuffs: EU list of substances
Risk Assessment procedure for substances in foods
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 596/2013 on the EU’s system of risk assessment in matters of food safety
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It establishes a system of EU-wide risk assessment procedures for the placing on the market of substances* in the food chain.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to all substances in the EU which are listed in Annex I to Regulation (EC) No 178/2002 (see summary).
It does not apply to:
foodstuffs intended for human consumption;
foods intended for sale to the general public;
medicinal products intended for use by the general population; or
food and feed intended for infants and young children.
The list is updated by the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA).
The European Commission is responsible for updating the list.
It must consult the European Medicines Agency (EMSA) and other relevant bodies in order to obtain the information it needs to make an informed decision.
Amendments
Amending Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2018/856 introduces a new procedure for the updating of the EU list. It allows the Commission to adopt implementing measures to ensure the consistency of the list with the EU countries’ national lists.
Implementing measures are adopted by the Commission within 6 months of the date of entry into force of each sectoral food law.
FROM WHEN DOES THIS REGULTRY TO APPLY?
From 1 January 2014.
BACKGROUND
The EU lists of substances are published in the Official Journal of the European Union (OJ).
For more information, see:
‘Food safety’ on the European Commission's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Substances: substances used in food or in food preparation, storage, transport, storage and distribution.
ACT
Council Regulation (Euratom) No 550/2013 of 20 December 2013 on the system of risks assessment in the field of food and in matters relating to food safety (recast).
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Imposition in force
1.1.2014
2.2.2016
3.4.2018
4.5.2019
OJ L 347 of 1.12.2014.
RELATED ACTS
Commission Implementing Regulation (CFSP) No 856/2014 of 11 December 2014 on the common procedure for updating and amending the Community list of certain substances in respect of the application for authorisation to be placed on the food market and repealing Council Decision 1999/468/EC.
last update 04.01.2019



Summary 168:
Accreditation, market surveillance and market surveillance of products from non-EU countries and the CE marking (until 2023)
Assessment of conformity assessment bodies and accreditation of products entering the European Union (EU)
As part of the EU’s effort to modernise its internal market, the European Commission has drawn up a framework for the accreditation, surveillance and control of products coming into the EU from outside the EU.
ACT
Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 596/2008 of 25 June 2008 laying down rules for the application of Regulation (EEC) No 1605/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council relating to accreditation and the market surveillance framework.
SUMMARY
WHAT DOES THIS REGULATION DO?
It lays down rules on accreditation*, market surveillance* and controls of products imported from non–EU countries.
KEY POINTS
The regulation sets out the conditions under which accreditation* is granted to a national conformity assessment body (NCB) to assess whether a product meets the essential requirements of EU legislation.
Accreditation is the process by which an accreditation body attests to the conformity of a product to the relevant legislation. It is carried out by a body designated by an EU country.
Each EU country appoints one or more national accreditation bodies to carry out the assessment.
The accreditation process is based on a set of principles:
non-discrimination;
the body is independent of the assessment bodies it assesses;
there are no conflicts of interest between the bodies;
it is transparent and non-discriminatory;
conformity assessment procedures are carried out in line with EU legislation;
accreditation bodies are independent of any commercial pressures;
they are not involved in the decision-making process.
WHEN DOES THE RECOMMARKET SURVEILLANCE FRAMEWORK AND CONTROL OF PRODUCTS ENTER INTO THE COMMUNITY MARKET APPLY?
From 1 January 2010, the regulation applies to all products that are released for free circulation in the EU, whether they are new or second hand.
It does not apply to:
new products that have not been accredited;
products that have been placed on the market for the first time;
pre-existing products which have been withdrawn from the market or are prohibited or restricted.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Regulation (EC), Euratom
1.1.2010
-
OJ L 165 of 1.7.2010, pp. 1-8
Amending act(s)
Entry INTO FORCE
Date of entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadlines for transposing into force (Official Journal)
Directive 2001/95/EC
2.8.2001
- (OJ C 202 of 2.8.).
RELATED ACTS
Communication from the Commission to the Parliament, the Council and the European Economic and Social Committee on the application by the Commission of the Regulation of 26 June 2008 relating to the Accreditation and Market Surveillance Framework (COM(2009) 796 final - Not published in the Official Journal).
Last updated: 27.08.2009



Summary 169:
Agreement between the EU and Iceland on mutual recognition of arrest warrant and extradition procedures (MRA/EEC)
Agreement with Iceland on Mutual Recognition of Arrest Warrant and Extradition Procedures (MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Decision 2008/852/EC of 26 June 2008 on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Union and the Kingdom of Norway and the Republic of Iceland on the mutual recognition and extradition of arrest warrants and the mutual extradition procedures between the Member States concerned
Agreed Framework Decision (EU/Iceland) 2016/848 on the signing, on behalf of the EU, and provisional application of the Agreements between the Community and its Member States on mutual Recognition and Interoperability with respect to Arrest Warrant Agreements and the Extraditable Arrangements
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE AGREEMENT AND OF THE DECISION?
The agreement aims to facilitate the arrest and subsequent extradition of persons who are wanted for criminal offences in the EU.
The decision concludes the agreement with Iceland.
KEY POINTS
Iceland and the EU agree to:
cooperate in the execution of an arrest warrant issued by an EU country against an individual who is suspected or suspected of committing an offence in another EU country;
ensure that the person concerned is held responsible for the acts for which the warrant has been issued;
implement a mutual recognition system between the two parties, in order to ensure that the arrest warrant is carried out in accordance with the law of the country concerned;
inform each other of the reasons for non-execution of the warrant.
In addition, the agreement provides for:
a mutual recognition mechanism between the parties;
the possibility for each party to request the other party to execute the warrant if it considers that the requested person is a threat to national security or public order;
an obligation on the requesting party to cooperate with the executing party in the event of multiple requests.
Amendments to the agreement
In 2016, the parties agreed to extend the agreement’s period of entry into force by 5 years from the date of its signing.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
The Agreement entered into force on 1 July 2016.
BACKGROUND
  
For more information, see:
EU-Iceland mutual recognition agreement (European Commission).
KEY TERMS
* Arrest warrant: an international warrant issued for the arrest of a person for an offence which is punishable by a maximum sentence of imprisonment of at least 5 years.
ACT
Decision 2008/884/EC, Euratom of the Council and of the Representatives of the Governments meeting within the Council of 25 June 2008 concerning the conclusion, on the basis of a proposal by the European Commission, of the agreement between the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee, the Committee of the Regions and the European Atomic Energy Community, and the Committee on Justice and Freedom of the Internal Market (CJORDAN) on the signature of an Agreement on mutual recognition and extradition between the Union and Iceland (OJ L 183, 1.7.2008, pp. 1-2)
RELATED DOCUMENTS
 
Agreements with the European Community and the countries of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, the former Republic of Moldova and the former Kingdom of Yugoslavia on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters and on cooperation in the field of law enforcement and judicial cooperation, and on mutual judicial assistance in the fields of criminal matters, and amending Council Decision 2006/856/EC and Council Decision 2005/858/EC on the European Arrest Warrant Agreement (Euratom/EC) and the Agreement on Mutual recognition and Interpol Cooperation in Criminal Matters, and repealing Council Decision 2004/854/EC (OJC L 183 of 1.8.2006, pp 1-3)
Council Joint Decision (EURO/EC), Euratom/Eurom, Eurom, and Euratom on the adoption, on 1 May 2005, of a Joint Declarations Agreement between Euratom and the Governments of the European Communities, the Community of Iceland, the Republic and the Union of Norway, and of Sweden on the application of certain provisions of Council Decision 2002/853/EC concerning mutual recognition, and Regulation (EC) No 596/2004 on mutual administrative assistance in matters of criminal law, and in particular on the protection of persons against deprivation of liberty and the right to have a third party informed of their identity and to communicate with third persons.
last update 14.08.2017



Summary 170:
Regulation (EC) No 596/2006 on the carriage of passengers on rail passenger services
Regulation(EU) No 550/2006 — carriage charge and passenger rights
SUMMARY
WHAT DOES THIS REGULATION DO?
It lays down common rules for the carriage charge* and the passenger rights relating to passenger carriage on railway passenger services in the European Union (EU).
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to all passengers travelling by rail in the EU.
It does not apply to:
travel information and reservation systems;
carriage charges;
the carriage of goods by rail;
traffic management and ticketing procedures;
ticketing procedures.
Passengers have the right to make a claim for compensation if:
they are the subject of a loss or damage claim;
their travel pass or season ticket is invalid or has expired;
they do not have a valid travel pass; or
their carriage is delayed or cancelled.
The carriage charge is calculated in accordance with the following principles:
the carrier is liable for the entire cost of the carriage;
it is based on the number of passengers and the total number of persons in the carriage.
Carriage charges are calculated on the basis of:
a passenger’s number of travel days;
an average number of journeys per day; and
the number of people travelling per day.
If a passenger is not entitled to compensation, the carrier is responsible for the full or partial payment of all the carriage charges.
Claims
The following types of claim may be made:
including:
claims for loss of a travel pass, a season ticket or a travel ticket;
claim for damage or loss of an item of luggage;
a claim for damage to a property, such as damage to an object, damage to property, loss or destruction of a vehicle, loss of goods or damage to personal property.
A claim may also be made for:
loss or damage of goods and services;
damage to a vehicle;
loss of a person or goods belonging to a person belonging to the same person;
damaged or destroyed property belonging to one of the persons entitled;
losing or damaging an item belonging to an individual belonging to another person.
Where a claim is made by a passenger, the person entitled must:
make a claim within 12 months of his/her becoming aware of the loss of the item;
be informed of the carrier to whom the claim is addressed;
notify the carrier of the name and address of the person who made the claim, and the person to whom it is addressed.
In addition, the passenger must be informed of any other measures taken by the railway undertaking to deal with a claim.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
 
   
It has applied since 1 January 2007.
BACKGROUND
  * KEY TERMS
* Passenger rights: the right of passengers to have their travel ticket or travel pass cancelled or delayed.
* Carriage charge: the amount of money charged by a railway undertaking for carriage of a passenger from the place of purchase to the place where the carriage is to be delivered.
MAIN DOCUMENT
  (EU) 2016/596 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2016 on the common carriage charge (recast) (OJ L 347, 12.12.2016, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 555/2006 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
  [Official Journal L 287 of 12.11.2016]
  The European Commission communication ‘Consumer Policy Strategy 2002-2006’ sets out the aim of achieving a high level of consumer protection in the field of transport. This communication is complemented by the Commission communication on the European rail network (COM(2006) 696 final of 12 December 2006).
Communication from the Commission to the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions: Towards a European railway network for the benefit of passengers, the EU and the European Free Trade Association (European External Action Service)
last update 14.02.2018



Summary 171:
EU statistics on education, training and lifelong learning: statistical production and transmission
EU statistics about education and training
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 596/2008 on the production of specific statistics on Education, Training and Lifelong Learning
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to improve the quality and reliability of European Union (EU) statistics in the field of education, learning, lifelong learning and vocational training.
It lays down the rules for the production, transmission and dissemination of statistics in these fields.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to all EU countries and the European Commission (Eurostat).
It does not apply to:
the EU countries’ national statistics institutes;
the European Statistical System of Europe (ESSE);
the statistical units (e.g. Eurostat); and
the statistics produced by Eurostat.
Data transmission
Eurostat must transmit confidential micro-data resulting from sample surveys to the Commission, subject to confidentiality, in accordance with the provisions on the transmission of data.
EU countries must ensure that the transmitted data do not permit the direct identification of the statistics units (individuals).
The Commission must transmit the data to Eurostat in the format set out in the annex to the regulation.
The data must be transmitted in a language easily understood by the EU countries, in a format that is consistent with the EU’s common statistical system.
In addition, EU countries must transmit information on:
a list of the variables to be used for the compilation of statistics
the list of variables and their codification
the definitions of those variables
the names of the statistical units
the definition of the categories of data to which the data relate
the classification of the data
the categories of information to be transmitted by EU countries
the types of statistical units to be produced
the data to be made available for the purposes of the compilation and interpretation of comparable statistics.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
From 1 January 2009.
BACKGROUND
The European Commission has adopted a number of measures to modernise and modernise the EU statistics system. These include:
Implementing Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2019/1369, which sets out the conditions for the establishment of an integrated European statistical information system on education (see summary);
Regulating (EU), Euratom, EEC and EFTA countries (EC, EFTA and the EEA) 2018/856, which set out the criteria for the creation of the European Statistical Information System (ESIS), which is based on a framework of coherent concepts and comparable data in view of the development of a common European statistical knowledge base.
For more information, see:
‘Education and training statistics’ on Eurostat's website.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Council Regulation (EC).
1.1.2008
-
OJ L 183 of 14.7.2008.
Amending act(s)
Date of entry into force - not published in the Official Journal
Regulations (EC and Euratom).
Last updated: 25.08.2008



Summary 172:
EU energy statistics: energy consumption
EU energy consumption: energy statistics
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EEC) No 596/2008 — energy statistics (energy statistics)
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out the rules for the transmission and dissemination of energy statistics to the European Commission and the European Energy Agency (EEA).
It aims to improve the quality and comparability of EU energy statistics.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to all EU countries and to the EU countries’ Member States, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway, Switzerland and the Faroe Islands.
It does not apply to Denmark, Greenland, the Azores and Madeira.
EU countries must provide the Commission with:
energy consumption statistics for the period 1 January to 31 December of each calendar year;
energy stocks* for each month of the year.
Reporting
The Commission must publish energy statistics in a format that is consistent with the EU’s national legislation.
Energy statistics must be based on:
the following sources of energy;
the sources and methods used to compile the statistics; and
the information they contain.
Transmission and dissemination
Each year, the Commission publishes a report on the energy consumption statistics it receives from the Member States and the EEA Member States.
The report must be published in the Official Journal of the European Union (OJ). It must contain the following information, including:
a list of energy sources and types of energy used;
a description of the sources and technologies used to produce the energy statistics;
an indication of the types and quantities of energy products and fuels used in each type of energy production and consumption;
information on the production and use of electricity and energy storage;
statistics on the generation, transmission and consumption of electricity;
data on energy storage and distribution of electricity, including a breakdown of electricity stocks;
gas consumption statistics, including gas consumption and LNG consumption.
In addition, the report must contain information on the following categories of energy:
total energy production;
total electricity generation;
electricity stocks; and stocks of electricity.
Electricity production
Total electricity generation
Total production of electricity: electricity produced by electricity plants and electricity stored in the form of electricity mains power plants (i.e. power plants that are not connected to the grid).
Total consumption
Total energy consumed by electricity: total energy consumed in the electricity generation and distribution sector.
Total generation of electricity (including electricity storage): total energy used in electricity generation, electricity storage and electricity distribution.
Emissions of energy
Total emissions of energy from energy generation, including electricity storage, electricity distribution and electricity consumption: total electricity produced, electricity stored, electricity exported, electricity imported and electricity exported.
MAIN DOCUMENT
Council Regulation (EEU) No 550/2008 of 29 June 2008 on energy statistics and repealing Regulation (EC) no 594/2006 (OJR) (OJC L 347, 30.12.2008, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EU) 2016/849 have been incorporated in the original text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
Regulations (EC, Euratom) No 696/2006 and (EC), Euratom Regulation No 697/2006 of the General Assembly and of the Council of 11 December 2006 on the Energy Statistics Committee (Euratom Regulation) (EURO Regulation) and amending Regulations (EC and Euratom Regulations) No 1099/2006, (EC Regulation) No 1169/2005, (Eureatom Regulation), (EC regulation) No 1299/2005 and (EU regulation) (Regulation) No 1369/2006).
Regulatory Regulation (ES) No 796/2005 of the EEC of 12 December 2005 laying down a framework for the exchange of information between the Commission and Member States relating to the transmission of energy and energy stocks (EUREA Regulation)
See consolidated version.
last update 11.01.2017



Summary 173:
Rights of disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility when travelling by bus or coach (Regulation (EC) No 596/2004)
Rights and obligations of passengers when travelling on public transport
SUMMARY OF:
Delegated Regulation (EU) 2016/852 — passenger rights and obligations relating to the carriage of passengers by bus and coach
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It sets out a common set of rights for passengers travelling by public transport in the European Union (EU).
It aims to ensure equal treatment of all passengers, irrespective of their physical, mental or social disability.
KEY POINTS
The regulation applies to:
bus and coach passengers, regardless of their age, disability or reduced mobility;
passengers in wheelchairs and other mobility equipment;
persons who are blind or partially sighted;
people who are visually impaired.
It does not apply to passengers who are physically handicapped.
Passenger rights
Passengers have a number of rights, including:
the right to transport within the EU, including the right to use the means of transport, such as lifts, escalators and escalators, and to be assisted by a qualified person;
access to information and assistance, including first aid, accommodation, food, clothes and transport.
The right to travel without undue delay or cancellation of a regular service, including a right to re-routing or reimbursement of the ticket price.
Right to travel in a coach or a bus without delay, without being accompanied by a person in a wheelchair or a person using a mobility device.
Access to information, accommodation and transport, including access to transport information, including information on accessibility, and access to services, including assistance with mobility equipment.
Transport contract
The passenger is the weaker party to the transport contract, and therefore is entitled to a minimum level of protection. However, the passenger is not entitled to compensation for any loss or damage caused to the vehicle or infrastructure.
Compensation in respect of wheelchairs, mobility devices and mobility equipment
The carrier is obliged to compensate for any damage or loss caused to wheelchairs or mobility devices or devices used by passengers. The amount of compensation must be calculated according to applicable national law.
In addition, the carrier is required to provide passengers with:
information on passenger rights in a language easily understood by all passengers;
transport information in an accessible format;
refunds or continuation of the regular service if the service is cancelled or delayed in departure for more than 120 minutes;
reimbursement of any ticket price if the ticket is not valid.
FROM WHEN DOES THE LEGISLATION APPLY?
   
It has applied since 1 January 2017. EU countries had to incorporate it into national law by 1 January 2018.
BACKGROUND
 
  * KEY TERMS
* Passenger: any person who is physically, mentally or socially disabled and has reduced mobility.
* Carriage: a vehicle or a service operated by a transport company or a private company for the purpose of transporting passengers by road, rail, sea, air or other means.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Regulation(EU) 1606/2008
1.1.2017
-
OJ L 347 of 1.12.2008
Amending act(s)
Entry INTO FORCE
Deadlines for transposing in the member States
official Journal
Commission Implementing Regulation (Euratom) No 696/2014
2.7.2014
- (OJ C 202 of 29.6.2014, pp. 1-8)
RELATED ACTS
Regulating (EU, Euratom) 2017/856 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2017 on the right of persons with disabilities to travel by bus, coach and other modes of transport and repealing Council Regulation (EC, EC) No 852/2004 (O J L 347, 29.12.-
See consolidated version.
last update 14.11.2017



Summary 174:
Statistics on the structure of the aquaculture sector (2008-2020)
Statistics on:
the structure and characteristics of the EU’s aquaulture sector
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 596/2008 — statistics on the aquaiculture sector
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
   
 
It aims to provide EU countries with reliable, comparable and up-to-date statistical information on the production and development of the European Aquaculture (AAS) sector.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to the EU countries’ participation in the aquaquaculture activities conducted in freshwater and saltwater on their territory. It does not apply to fish, crustaceans and molluscs, lakes and other waters other than those used by the EU.
EU countries must:
use surveys or other statistically validated methods covering at least 90 % of the total production by volume;
use the methods set out in the annexes to the regulation;
ensure that the data are collected and compiled within 12 months of the end of the reference calendar year;
provide the data to Eurostat, the European Commission, which is assisted by the Standing Committee for Agricultural Statistics.
The data are to be used for the following purposes:
assessing the structure and the characteristics of each part of the sector;
collecting, analysing and compiling the statistics;
checking the quality of the data;
analyzing the data.
Compilation and transmission of the statistics.
Annexes to this regulation are as follows:
Aquaculture statistics:
Each year, EU countries must submit a report to the Commission (Eurostat) on the statistics they have collected and the data they have compiled.
Each report must include:
a description of the methods used to collect the data (e.g. postal questionnaires, personal interviews, censuses or sampling, frequency of surveys, estimation methods);
the number of fish and crustacean species produced;
the total number of tonnes of each species;
a list of the types of facilities used;
data on the number and types of aquatic plants used; and
a summary of how the statistics are processed and compiled and how long this takes.
In addition, the Commission must submit an evaluation report every 3 years to the European Parliament and to the Council on the data compiled pursuant to this Regulation and, in particular, on their relevance and quality.
FROM WHEN DOES IT APPLY?
The Regulation entered into force on 1 January 2008.
BACKGROUND
Fisheries statistics
For more information, see:
‘Fishery statistics’ on Eurostat's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Fishing: the catch and consumption of fish (including eggs) by land, sea and air, including fish caught in fresh water, saltwater, lakes, other waters and other water other than the EU, including the fishing of fish by sea, air and land.
ACT
Council Regulation (EU) No 550/2008 of 20 December 2008 laying down Community statistics relating to the aquatic sector (OJ L 157, 29.12.2008, pp. 1-8)
Successive amendments to Regulation (EC), as amended by Regulation (EEC) 2015/849, have been incorporated in the basic text. This consolidated version is of documentary value only.
RELATED ACTS
Commission Implementing Decision (CFSP) 2016/856 of 11 December 2016 laying down the rules for the compilation of statistics on fisheries (Codified version).
last update 14.01.2017



Summary 175:
Convention Area for the Conservation and Management of Fishery Resources (CAC) (see summary)
Convention area for the conservation and management of fishery resources (Cac)
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 1224/2009 on the implementation of the Convention Area for Community Fisheries and the CAC
Decision (EU) 2017/849 on the application of the convention area for Community fisheries and of the Cac Convention to the EU
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION AND OF THE DECISION?
The regulation establishes the Cascadia Convention Area, which aims to prevent and combat illegal fishing and the illegal taking of fish by vessels flying the flag of non-signatory countries.
The decision adopts the regulation on behalf of the European Community (now the EU).
KEY POINTS
The convention area is defined by the International Convention on the Conservation of Atlantic Tunas (ICCAT), which was signed by all the signatory countries in 1979. It covers the fishing waters of the Atlantic Ocean, including the exclusive economic zone (EEZ), which is defined as the sea between the coasts of the EU and the Gulf of Mexico, and includes all fishing vessels of the following countries:
the EU;
non-EU countries;
the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe (UNECE);
the World Trade Organization (WTO); and
the International Maritime Organization (IMO).
The EU is a contracting party to the ICCAT.
It is responsible for implementing the convention and for ensuring that non-member countries comply with its rules.
Catchings and identifications are carried out under the auspices of the Nomenclature of Fisheries and Aquaculture of the Faroes (NEAFCFishery Management Scheme).
Inspections
Each signatory country must designate a competent authority to carry out inspections of vessels flying its flag in the area covered by the convention. This authority is designated by the Commission or by the body designated by it.
Each country must ensure that an inspection vessel is present during that time in the regulatory area or that an agreement has been concluded with another country to ensure the presence of such a vessel.
If a vessel is not called to port, the flag EU country must provide due justification in a timely manner to the Commission and the body by that flag country for a thorough inspection under its authority.
Every inspection must be documented by the completion of an inspection report using the form established in accordance with Article 50(2) of the regulation. The report must include, where appropriate, the number of fishing days and the catch taken in the fishing area since the start of fishing, or since the last catch report;reports on the quantities on-loaded and off-loaded for each transhipment of fish during the vessel’s stay in the REGION Area.
Reports on non-contracting parties activities
Reports must be sent to the NEAFC Secretary, who forwards the information promptly to the European Commission, which forwards it to the competent national authority of the country in which the vessel is registered. The Commission then forwards this information to the NCAF Secretary, which then forwards it, in turn, to the relevant national authority in the Member State in which it is registered, and to the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP).
If an inspection is carried out by an EU country, it must transmit the results of the inspection, as well as the information on the vessel and the fishing vessel, to: the Commission;the NCAFC Secretary;the UNECE Secretariat;the Commission or the body in charge of fisheries and aquaculture;the International Commission for the Prohibition of Unlawful Trade in Fishing Vessels (ICPN) and the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRN);the International Labour Organization (ILO); andthe World Health Organization (WHO).
Monitoring and enforcement
The following measures must be taken:
inspections must be carried out at least once a year;
if an infringement is found, the vessel must be brought to the attention of the competent authority and informed of the reasons for the infringement;
a penalty must be imposed for infringements of the above.
EU countries must take all necessary measures to ensure that vessels flying their flag are subject to the control and enforcement measures laid down in this regulation.
In addition to surveillance reports and information on inspections, Member States may at any time submit any further information which might be relevant for the identification of vessels that might be carrying out IUU activities in the Convention area.
FROM WHEN DO THE DECISIONS APPLY?
 
   
The regulations have applied since 1 January 2018.
BACKGROUND
The Convention provides for an appropriate framework for multilateral cooperation on the rational conservation and sustainable management of fisheries.
For more information, see:
Fishing in the Atlantic (European Commission).
MAIN DOCUMENTS
Council Regulation (



Summary 176:
Ecolabeling of food and feed
Ecolabelling of foods and feed products
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EU) No 552/2014 on the European Union Ecolabel
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
   
It sets out the rules for the setting of ecodesign* requirements for products intended for human consumption.
KEY POINTS
Scope
The regulation applies to all food, feed and animal feed intended for sale in the EU.
It does not apply to:
products intended for the production, storage, transport, storage or disposal of food or feed;
food and feed intended to be fed to animals or domestic animals;
animal feed intended exclusively for consumption by animals and domestic animals.
Requirements
Products covered by the regulation must comply with the following requirements:
be safe and ecodegradable;
not contain substances that present a risk to human health or the environment;
have a minimum energy consumption of no more than 0.5 kW/kg of energy per unit of volume;
be manufactured in a way that minimises the environmental impact of the product on the environment and human health;
use only products that are safe and environmentally sound.
Eligibility
Products are subject to the following conditions:
they must meet the requirements laid down in Regulation (EC) No 1980/2000 on energy efficiency (see summary);
they are not intended for direct sale to the general public;
they do not contain substances with a potential harmful effect on human health and the environment (e.g. food or animal feed);
the product group criteria are set out in Annex I of the regulation.
Products which meet all of these requirements are eligible for the EU Ecolabelled status.
The European Commission is assisted by a Committee which is composed of representatives of the Member States and is chaired by the Commission. It is responsible for:
monitoring compliance with the criteria;
assessing the suitability of products to meet the criteria and assessing their suitability for use;
making recommendations to the Commission;
advising the Commission on how to improve the application of the criteria.
Application procedure
An application procedure is established for each product to be designated as an EU ecolabel by the competent body of an EU Member State. The application procedure consists of the following steps:
the applicant must submit a product application to the competent authority in the Member State in which the product is to be placed on the market;
the competent body assesses the product to determine whether it complies with the requirements and issues a registration number to the product.
If the product meets all of the requirements, it is awarded an EU EColabel. The competent body then transmits the registration number and, if necessary, a CE marking to the manufacturer or importer.
Once the CE marking has been assigned, the manufacturer, importer or authorised representative of the importer must ensure that the product bears the CE mark and that it is accompanied by the appropriate documentation. If the product does not comply with these requirements, the product may be withdrawn from the market or withdrawn from circulation.
Certification of compliance
The competent body must verify that a product meets the requirements by carrying out a risk assessment and by issuing a CE mark or CE marking. The CE marking is valid for 10 years and may be renewed if the product has not been used for more than 10 years.
Where a product is withdrawn from use, the holder is liable for any damage caused to the environment caused by the withdrawal of the CE label or the loss of its CE mark.
Registration
The product is registered in the territory of the EU and must be accompanied by a certificate issued by a competent body in accordance with the rules laid down by the Regulation (EU).
The CE marking must be affixed on the product by the end of the 10-year validity period.
Labels and registration number
A product must bear the following information on its label or registration number:
a description of the nature and characteristics of the products concerned;
an indication of the type of product;
a list of authorised importers, importers and authorised representatives of importers; and
the name and postal address of the authorised importer/expiry date.
An optional label with text box (the possibility for the operator to use this text box and the text used shall be that specified in the relevant product category) must also be attached to a product, provided that it does not contain any other information other than the information specified in Annex II to the regulation, and that the label is clearly visible to the end consumer.
Regulatory procedure
The Commission adopts the criteria for the establishment of the European Commission’s delegated authority, the European Environment Agency (EEA), and the Commission, assisted by the EEA, and adopts an implementing act. The Commission may adopt delegated acts in the light of public consultation.
FROM WHEN DOES THE



Summary 177:
Protection of medicinal products protected by a patent
Protection against counterfeiting — granting a certificate to protect medicinal products
SUMMARY OF:
Regulation (EC) No 596/2006 — granting certificates for the protection of medicines protected by patents
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE REGULATION?
It aims to ensure that patents granted by the European Patent Office (EPO) are protected by certificates issued by national authorities.
It codifies and repeals Regulation (Euratom) No 1082/91.
KEY POINTS
Protected products are those products which are the result of long, costly research and which are subject to patent protection.
The protection granted by a certificate is limited to the product covered by the authorisation to place the product on the market as a medicinal product. It does not extend to the products covered by a basic patent.
Licence to manufacture a protected product is granted to the holder of a patent. A certificate may be granted for a product protected by an EPO if it is:
the result of a long-term research programme;
the subject of an application for a patent; or
the product to which the patent relates.
Certificates are valid for a maximum period of 20 years. They may be renewed for an additional period of 5 years if the product is protected by another patent, or for an indefinite period if the term of protection is reduced by the number of years of the patent. The period of validity of the certificate is determined by national law.
Application for a certificate
An application for protection must contain the following information:
a description of the nature and nature of the protected product;
a copy of the original patent;
an application for an extension of the duration of the protection granted to a protected by the EPO; and
the number and date of the first authorisation issued by the EU country in which the product was obtained.
If the application is rejected, the applicant must provide all the information set out in the annex to the regulation, including the name and address of the competent national authority, the date of application for the certificate and the number and number of authorisations granted.
A certificate is valid for 10 years, unless it is renewed for a further 5 years.
Duration of protection
The duration of a certificate may not be shorter than the period of protection conferred by the patent, but it may be reduced to a maximum of 10 years. The duration may be extended for a period of up to 20 years, or reduced to 5 years, depending on the case.
EU countries may require that the certificate be subject to the payment of annual fees. The annual fees are to be paid by the applicant or by the holder.
FROM WHEN DOES THE RECOMMENDATION APPLY?
The regulation has applied since 1 January 2007 and had to become law in the EU countries by 1 January 2008.
BACKGROUND
   
For more information, see:
‘Protected medicinal products’ on the European Commission’s website.
* KEY TERMS
* Patent: a patent granted by an EU country to a person or a company for the purpose of preventing, limiting or limiting the supply of a substance or a service to a particular population or to a specific group of persons or groups of persons, or to the general public.
REFERENCES
Act
Entry into force - Date of expiry
Deadline for transposition in the Member States
Official Journal
Council Decision 2006/596/EC
1.1.2007
-
OJ L 378 of 27.12.2006
Amending act(s)
Entry INTO FORCE
Date of entry into force
Transposition: Date of application into force (if different from the date indicated in the act)
Deadlines for transposing in the Official Journal
Regulations (EC, Euratom, EC, EC and EFTA) No 1169/2006, (EC), (ECE) No 1201/2008, (EU) No 1399/2008 and (EU), (EU, EFTA and EFSP) No 696/2008
Regulating (EC)(EC) 2017/852 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 March 2017 on the protection conferred on a certificate issued by a national authority to protect a protected medicinal product (Codified version) (OJ C 202, 12.7.2017, pp. 1-2)
last update 14.11.2017



Summary 178:
Convention on jurisdiction and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters (Switzerland-EC Convention)
Contribution to the conclusion of the Convention on Jurisdiction and Enforcement of Judgments in Civil and Commercial Matters (SICC Convention) by the European Community and the European Free Trade Association (Euratom)
SUMMARY OF:
Decision (EU) 2016/852 concluding the Convention relating to jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement by the EU of the International Convention on the jurisdiction and Enforcement by the International Court of Justice of the Swiss Confederation
Convention relating to the jurisdiction of the European Convention on Judgement and Enforcement in Civil And Commercial Matters
WHAT IS THE AIM OF THE CONVENTION AND OF THE DECISION?
The convention aims to ensure that judgments are recognised and enforced in all EU countries.
The decision concludes the convention on behalf of the EU.
KEY POINTS
The parties to the convention are Switzerland, the EU, the European Economic Community (EFTA), the European Atomic Energy Community (EEA), the EU countries, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland (1), Ireland, the Republic of Ireland, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway, Switzerland, Sweden, Switzerland and the United States of America (1).
The aim of the convention is to:
ensure that judgments issued by EU countries are recognised by the courts of the other contracting parties;
promote the free movement of persons, goods and services within the EU;
protect intellectual property rights;
facilitate access to justice and the protection of intellectual property;
improve cooperation between the contracting parties in the fight against counterfeiting and counterfeiting;
strengthen promote the application of the principle of non-discrimination between the EU and non-EU countries;
contribute to the harmonisation of laws, regulations and administrative procedures in the area of jurisdiction;
encourage cooperation between EU countries in the field of competition;
support the development of a free trade area between the signatory countries and the EU as a whole.
DATE OF ENTRY INTO FORCE
 
The EU has ratified the convention and entered into force on 1 July 2016.
BACKGROUND
The Convention on Justice and Enforcement is one of a series of legal instruments designed to ensure the effective application of EU law.
For more information, see:
‘Judgment and enforcement’ on the European Commission's website.
* KEY TERMS
* Judgement: a decision by a court of an EU country to enforce a judgment.
ACT
Council Decision 2006/856/EC of 29 June 2006 on the conclusion, on behalf the European Union, of the Convention relating on jurisdiction, and on the recognition, enforcement and enforcement in civil & commercial matters between the European Communities and the International Courts of Justice (OJ C 202, 1.7.2006, pp. 1-8)
RELATED ACTS
Regulation (EC) No 44/2001 of the EC Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2001 on the application by the Member States of the Treaty on European Union of the Protocol to the Accession of the Community to the Convention concerning the jurisdiction, recognition and enforceability of judgments, and amending the Protocol on the Recognition, Enforcement and Approximation of Civil & Commercial Jurisdictions (Codified version).
last update 14.01.2017



